Tevin Govender, 24, an employee at the Club Leisure Group, died last Tuesday after spending five days in the intensive care unit (ICU) at the RK Khan Hospital. He sustained a cracked skull and injuries to his body. Fighting back tears, his father, Vincent Govender, who was with him during the brutal attack, said the image of his son’s head soaked in blood was something he would never forget. “I am a mechanic. On November 9, the day of the attack, Tevin accompanied me while I dropped a customer off at his home. The customer wanted to go to the shop and while there he met three men he’d previously had an altercation with. An argument began between them and before it could get too heated, I tried to stop it.” Govender explained that the customer got back into the vehicle while he drove to a garage in Unit 9 to fill up with fuel. Unbeknown to Govender, the men followed them and parked their vehicle across the road from the garage. “As Tevin and the customer walked to the shop, two of the men approached them and started fighting with them. “Tevin did not know what was going on. I stopped the fight again and as we turned around to walk to our vehicle they raced to their car, picked up baseball bats and started chasing after my son and the customer,” claimed Govender. Govender said Tevin began running for his life. “One of the men caught up to him and struck him on the back of the head with a baseball bat. He fell to his knees. Then the third man, who had been waiting in the car, drove towards him at high speed, knocking him to the ground. They then sped off,” he claimed. Govender said Tevin was rushed to RK Khan Hospital. “I was so scared. His head was soaked with blood and I did not know what to do to help or save him. He was in a critical condition for five days. I hoped and prayed he would recover but his injuries were too severe. He died on Tuesday.” For Govender, breaking the news to his wife Lorraine and Tevin’s younger siblings was the hardest thing he had to do. “We are a very close family. Tevin would have celebrated his 24th birthday on Sunday and was recently promoted to a supervisor at work, a position he was going to take up in the new year. We had plans of spending the weekend at a chalet to celebrate.” Govender said all they wanted was justice. “These men thought Tevin was the customer’s son because they looked similar. They killed an innocent young man who had a bright future. I pray police investigations will lead to their arrests and conviction.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of murder was being investigated. POST