Disgruntled parents are demanding that the Department of Education launch an investigation into Desiree Pillay’s October19 appointment. They claim that due processes were not followed in her appointment. It has been alleged that Pillay and other short-listed candidates were only interviewed by members of the local circuit office and an external recruitment body. The school governing body (SGB) was allegedly not consulted. A source claimed Pillay was removed from her previous school, Lenham Primary, in 2014, after claims that this appointment was also irregular. At the time she was asked to report to the circuit office daily. She remained there for four years on her principal’s salary. Pillay reported for duty at Greenbury Primary on October 22, and parents protested, refusing her entry to the school. One of the parents, Sadia Ally, said ­Colin Ponsamy, the acting principal for two years after the previous principal retired, deserved the position. Another parent, Judy Visagie, echoed this sentiment. “In two years Ponsamy has done so much for the school. He built a pavilion for the children to sit in at the school grounds. He is a principal who understands the needs of parents and children,” she said. Jenny Naidoo said they had a meeting with the head of the circuit, who disagreed that due processes had been flouted. “He was so rude to us and told us that he would get back to us, but we are still waiting for answers.” ANC councillor Roy Moodley, who spearheaded the demonstration, said it was a natural progression for the person next in line to get the job. “If a principal leaves or has passed on, the normal process is for the next capable person to take up the position. “Ponsamy has been at the school for 32 years, it is only fair that he should take up the job.” He said more protests would take place should answers not be given. The national general secretary of Minorities of South Africa, Rashina Singh, questioned why the department left the SGB out of the process. Jonathan Annipen, a Minority Front councillor in Phoenix, said he had approached the Department of Education requesting reasons why the SGB had not been part of the interview process. “The actions of supervisors at the circuit office are tantamount to corruption, and the department must intervene immediately,” he said. KZN Education Department spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa said the recruitment process had been handled by human resources. “For us to consider any candidate we have to satisfy the academic qualifications, skills and experiences required. It is not based on their looks or how they smile.” Asked if he was aware of the allegations made against Pillay and the department, he said: “The district is handling the matter. “Once they have exhausted all avenues they will bring the matter to us, but we have full confidence in them.” He likened the situation to the awarding of a tender. “When someone is not awarded a tender, they want to make all these allegations, but when they have it they are very happy.” Pillay, who was approached for comment, directed POST to the department. “I am not mandated to respond, please put all allegations to the Department of Education.” POST