Durban - BP and Pick n Pay announced the launch of points for fuel earlier this week. This follows an announcement made in October that the two brands would expand their partnership to give customers even more value at a time they need it most. For the initial launch period until March 31,  2019, Smart Shoppers will earn 20 points for every litre of fuel purchased at over 500 BP service stations across South Africa, and 10 points per litre thereafter. Customers can also expect great specials at the pump, which will allow them to boost their points throughout the year. Speaking about the launch John Bradshaw, Pick n Pay’s head of marketing, said, “We always look for ways to give our customers the best value we can through their everyday spend. We’ve finally found a way to deliver rewards for fuel purchases and we’re really excited about this new partnership.” Customers will be able to spend their fuel points at any Pick n Pay store, directly at the till point. BP Southern Africa head of marketing, Tebogo Mekoa says that BP is always looking for exciting ways to keep their customers rewarded when they fill up. “Offering our customers the opportunity to earn Smart Shopper points just for filling up at BP is a great way for us to say thank you, and we are looking forward to giving our customers a good experience when they visit our service stations. In keeping with our customer centric approach, the points will be available real time - meaning they become immediately available for redemption at Pick n Pay stores,” said Mekoa. “This partnership will deliver a compelling customer value proposition, especially in an increasingly challenging market environment. We are rewarding our customers for their everyday basics such as refuelling their cars or buying groceries,” Mekoa said. Pick n Pay has a long history with petrol pricing: founder Raymond Ackerman took on government in the 1970s in a bid to discount petrol. Pick n Pay CEO Richard Brasher said, “Raymond fought a long and tough battle to be allowed to sell petrol at a discounted price. It was one of the few fights he took up on behalf of consumers that he didn’t win outright. This new offer from Pick n Pay and BP comes very close to what he’d been trying to achieve.” “We are enormously grateful to our customers for voting us their favourite loyalty programme for the sixth consecutive year. We will keep finding ways to make Smart Shopper simpler and better and continue to put customers at the heart of the programme,” concluded Bradshaw. Daily News