Durban - The Denis Hurley Centre said it was still reeling from Paddy Kearney’s sudden death last Friday. Kearney, a human rights and religious champion of the city, died of a heart attack last Friday. The Denis Hurley Centre has also released information about planned events ahead of Paddy Kearney’s funeral on Saturday. In an e-mail, the Denis Hurley Centre said: “The funeral Mass will be celebrated by Wilfrid Cardinal Napier OFM (on Saturday). After the Mass, the coffin will leave the Cathedral for a private family cremation on Monday as per Paddy’s wishes”. The Denis Hurley Centre urged the public to rideshare as parking would be scarce. “Please note that parking will be at a premium so try and share cars if you can. Cathedral parking will only be for invited guests. Please use Nicol Square Parkade, Victoria Street Market or the extra parking that will be made available on Denis Hurley Street”. On Friday, members of the public will be given a chance to see Kearney’s coffin at Diakonia. “The hall will be open throughout this period for times of silent prayer. Every half hour a short formal prayer will be led by a different faith leader, to recognise Paddy’s role in ecumenical and interfaith dialogue. Come for as much time as you can”. Parking will be available on Diakonia Avenue with uniformed Denis Hurley Centre street guards. And on Thursday, the eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede and Premier Willies Mchunu will host a civic memorial service at the Durban City Hall. “This shows the very high esteem in which he was held in political and civic circles and will include speeches from various political luminaries as well as cultural items,” said the centre. Members of the public may park at the Royal Hotel car park, or on designated street parking in the CBD. Meanwhile, the Denis Hurley Centre said the family have requested that, instead of flowers, donations can be made to a special Paddy Kearney Tribute fund at the Denis Hurley Centre. The bank details are the usual ones: FNB a/c 62204261002 As a reference please put ‘PK + your surname’. The family and the centre have urged members of the public to send their heartfelt tributes online on social media platforms or by signing the condolence books at the Denis Hurley Centre, Diakonia or City Hall. The centre said it would collect all the messages and share them with the family and also publish them together online.