Meanwhile, Malaika is rumoured to be in a relationship with Arjun Kapoor. The alleged couple were recently spotted holding hands at Milan airport. There are rumours that they are contemplating marriage. The blockbuster success of Sonu Ki Titu Ke Sweety has definitely inflated the ego of the lead star Kartik Aryan. Though Kartik would be foolish to assume he was single-handedly responsible for this success, the young man seems to have rubbed off a few Bollywood biggies the wrong way. While there were numerous reports of a fallout with his mentor Luv Ranjan, the handsome actor has again upset the powerhouse film-maker Karan Johar. First, he turned down a leading role in the Johar production Good News, claiming he would not play a supporting role to Akshay Kumar and Kareena Kapoor Khan. Though Karan was quick to find a brilliant replacement in Diljith Dosanjh, Kartik has done it yet again. This time he was invited by Karan as a guest on his highly successful talk show Koffee With Karan. However Kartik declined the invite as he was not keen to share the couch with actor Vicky Kaushal. Known for his starry tantrums, Kartik has left Karan fuming. Someone else who is making news for all the wrong reasons is the brilliant actor Rajkumar Rao. Fresh from the success of the movie Stree, the actor has been accused off unprofessional behaviour by the director of the movie 5 Weddings. Film-maker Namrata Singh Gujral claimed that their relationship went sour when she refused to cast his girlfriend Patralekha for one of the leading roles in the entertainer that has Nargis Fakhri heading the cast. The National Award-winning actor, who was also seen recently in Fanney Khan, has distanced himself from the project and has been missing from all promotions. Fakhri plays the role of an American journalist who heads off to write her next story in India. Rao plays the police inspector who guides her during her journey. Known and celebrated for his unique choices, there is simply no stopping the powerful actor Ayushmann Khurrana. After two incredibly successful movies last year with Bareilly Ki Barfi and Shubh Mangal Saavdhaan, the actor is now basking in the success of two blockbusters that both released in October. First he played a blind piano player alongside Tabu in the hit thriller Andhaadhun - a movie that went on to also get critical acclaim. He achieved the rare feat again in October with critical and commercial success, when the mature family comedy Baadhai Ho took a flying start at the box office. Khurrana who made an award-winning debut in Vicky Donor, will next be seen with Nushrat Bharucha in the quirky comedy Googly. If you were eagerly awaiting the release of the comedy caper Total Dhamaal this December, then sadly you have to wait a little longer. Featuring a blockbuster cast, Total Dhamaal brings together Anil Kapoor, Ajay Devgan, Madhuri Dixit, Ritesh Deshmukh, Arshad Warsi, Javed Jaffrey and Esha Gupta. Directed by Indra Kumar of Dil, Beta and Raja fame, the movie will now be pushed to February next year. Ajay Devgan confirmed the news on social media. The two big releases that will now dominate December include Shahrukh Khan’s Zero and Ranveer Singh’s Simba. * Bunseelal is the founder of Star Attraction and the official representative of Colors TV in South Africa. He is also a movie critic and presenter of the Breakfast Show on Eastwave Radio. Write to him at info@starattraction.co.za POST