A young waiter at a Durban hotel, Balakrishnan Pillay, began lecturing on Saivism and Tamil culture to his colleagues during his spare time. Soon staff from other neighbouring hotels, who wanted to keep their culture alive in a foreign land, also became interested in the inspiring talks. The group decided they needed a proper venue to hold religious and cultural discourses on a regular basis. Premises were first rented in May Street, Durban, then Warwick Avenue, before a site was acquired in Brickfield Road, Overport. Thus, 111 years ago, on October27, 1907, was born the Sithivinayaga Sangam, a society of religious like-minded men, who were committed to preserving and fostering their religion and culture. A simple wood-and-iron structure was built, comprising a temple and rooms for Tamil and music classes. The history of the Sithivinayaga Temple records that the rich Tamils in Durban did not easily identify themselves with this organisation as its roots lay in a “pariah” (low caste) foundation. However, the temple officials and members of the congregation were not deterred by the class structure and continued with their efforts to sustain religion and cultural traditions. Dan Govender, the chairman of the Sithivinayaga Temple Committee, said much credit for holding the institution together for more than a century must go to the spiritual heads, Balakrishnan Pillay, Sarahana Perumal Pillay, Francis Chinsamy Pillay, Iyavoomurthi Pillay and Panjavaranam Manickam, who is the present head priest. “Apart from ministering to the religious needs of the community, the gurus also placed great emphasis on propagating Tamil language and music by holding classes at the temple premises.” Govender said the temple suffered a serious setback in 1968 when its property was marked for expropriation for a school building development. Protracted negotiations with the education authorities and the South African Indian Council over the ensuing years resulted in the notice of expropriation being withdrawn. Plans were then drawn for a new temple building and hall. “The members of the congregation and well-wishers in the community rallied together and provided labour and money to construct the new building. Later a dining hall was added,” said Govender. While the temple prides itself on its 111-year existence, its dynamic women’s group is celebrating its 60th anniversary. Anamma Chinnappen, the deputy guru of the temple and a long-standing member of the women’s group, said the idea of a women’s group was first mooted in 1948 by Nagavelli George, but was rejected by the all-male management of the temple. It was only a decade later that the women’s group, which was established on December 26, 1958, was allowed to conduct its affairs at the temple. “For the past 60 years, the women have played a key role in bringing love, beauty and progress to temple activities and are regarded as the backbone of the organisation. “Members of the women’s group participate in the bathing of the murthis, cleaning the temple and lamps, making flower garlands, co-ordinating prayers, preparing meals, raising much-needed funds, engaging in community outreach programmes, and organising women and youth empowerment programmes,” she said. Govender added that today the temple stood as a beacon on the Overport landscape and had shed its past dreadful image of being a temple for the low caste. “We have no class or creed distinction. Every devotee is equal before God. The temple is proud to have a band of men and women who work with great loyalty, honesty, zeal and enthusiasm to keep alive the legacy of the founding fathers. That commitment is reflected in our priest, Guru Manickam, who performs his duties totally free of charge.” POST