In that dark period, we have seen the country slide into a cesspool of corruption and poor governance; executive leadership has been found wanting; crime rates have reached alarming levels; and public protests over service delivery have become an almost everyday occurrence. At this juncture, South Africans need to ask themselves three simple questions: Are we disappointed that our country has degenerated to this level, 24 years after winning a new political dispensation for all citizens? Do we want to see more decisive action that will bring an end to the rampant fraud, theft and inefficiencies in government? Do we want to see those responsible for looting our coffers brought to book, so they can be prosecuted and convicted for their crimes? If the answer to these three questions is in the affirmative, then we must give institutions like the Zondo Commission of Inquiry into State Capture a chance to do their work. Last week saw protests, led by EFF commander-in-chief, Julius Malema, outside the Zondo Commission when Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan was giving evidence that was critical to exposing much of the malfeasance and theft that occurred in several state-owned entities (SOEs) in recent years. People, of course, have a right to protest but when someone like Malema, who was one of those who went to court to defend the establishment of the commission, now stands up to denigrate it, you begin to question his motives. Even more dangerous were the insults, abuse and blatant untruths he hurled at Minister Gordhan. Without offering a shred of evidence, he labelled Gordhan the biggest enabler of state capture, a rotten member of the ANC and a “dog of white monopoly capitalism”. The media, which has played a crucial role in exposing corruption in the government, was not spared Malema’s venom and journalists were accused of being crooks and hypocrites no different from the propagandists of the apartheid era. To his credit, Gordhan remained calm and collected during his three days of evidence, refusing to be ruffled by such cheap populist distractions. If Malema is a true economic freedom fighter, as he claims to be, he would be in the forefront of the campaign against looting and corruption. And the most effective way of doing that is by joining those who have had the courage and conviction to avail themselves to testify at the Zondo Commission of Inquiry. Do the right thing, Mr Malema. POST