Recalling the past 37 years, Shakoon Govender, 53, said December 1982 had been filled with joy and sadness for her. She was a Grade 10 pupil at Northmead Secondary School and had been awarded several trophies, including a book prize titled Gee My ’* Droom (Give Me A Dream), for her academic and sporting achievements. But while her teachers and classmates praised her for her success, Govender found herself in a corner of the room, sobbing uncontrollably. She knew she would not be returning to school or fulfilling her dream of being a scientist or a teacher. Her father, Nanda Sewpersad, wanted her to get married and she was forced to drop out of school. “My father was very strict and old-fashioned. He believed that once a girl could write her name, she did not need to go to school. So when I learned to write, I treated each day at school like it was my last. This motivated me to succeed.” As a child, her father did not allow her to play outside, but insisted she spend time in the kitchen learning how to cook and clean. However, Govender was hungry for knowledge, and instead of cooking, she read books. “I was 16 when my father told me I had to leave school and my heart broke. I was angry but later on, I understood his actions.” After leaving school she began working at a clothing factory and while working she completed a qualification in fashion design and opened her own dressmaking business. But despite these milestones, Govender’s life felt empty because she did not have a matric qualification. When she turned 50 she decided to go back to school. “A friend, who is a teacher, came to my home. When I saw her I burst into tears, telling her I am so much older but still crying to go to school. Her response was, ‘God will make a way’.” Two days later, a neighbour told her about the matric programme at the KZN Department of Education. “I split my studies over two years. In 2017 I did mathematics, Afrikaans and English. This year I focused on religious studies, geography and business studies. I attended classes from Monday to Thursday from 3pm to 6pm.” Govender, who described education as priceless, worked tirelessly with her teachers, revising with past year papers and by watching the learning channel and would even help other matric pupils in the community with their work. Whenever she feels demotivated she looks at her Afrikaans book prize from 1982 and reflects on her motto “if I can dream it, I can do it”. POST