The festival, which starts on the day the last paper of the 2018 National Senior Matric exams is written, will take place from November 30 to December 8 in Ballito and uMhlanga and some parts of Durban central. Thousands of teenagers will enjoy beach days, pool parties and late nights with some of the best music artists, including Black Coffee, DJ Speedsta and Riky Rick. Greg Walsh, the founder and director of G&G, which organises the event, said alcohol remained the preferred indulgent. As a result, they would take precautionary measures - selling drinks at premium prices - to ensure teenagers’ safety. He said inebriated party-goers could be locked out of buying liquor on credit with a tap on their digital bracelets, known as passports. It is also used for identification and access to certain areas of the festival. “Another perk of the passport is that you get a tag on your wrist that will contain a code that when scanned it will reveal your medical records and all your details,” Walsh explained. Red Frog, which has 200 volunteers from church organisations, will patrol the event and provide assistance during emergencies and counselling. Statistics South Africa found that one in two teenagers are active consumers of alcohol and that 15% of males and 8% of females are said to have their first drink before the age of 13. A Tongaat matric pupil said she would attend the festival with her friends to de-stress by dancing and meeting new people. “One does not need to drink to have a good time,” she said. Another matric pupil, of Phoenix, said rage was not the scene for him. Illicit behaviour and excessive alcohol consumption was a common occurrence at “these type of parties” and as a result their safety could be compromised. Ashika Manickum, a Newlands West parent, said it became worrying when teens become irresponsible at parties. “Stay with your friends instead of venturing off with strangers, even if it seems harmless,” she advised. Fellow parent, Neresha Sampath Needhee, of Phoenix, said that while her daughter had not been exposed to the festival, she hoped other parents whose children were attending addressed the potential dangers with them. A Ballito liquor outlet said the festival helped boost sales but emphasised that they did not sell alcohol to minors. Identification was required if a person was suspected of being under-age. Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said: “Although most of the events are hosted in Ballito, there will a high visibility of policing and a joint operation centre set up for the duration.” POST