Durban -  South Africa joins the international community in annually observing World Diabetes Day on November 14. The theme for this year is “The family and Diabetes”, which highlights the effect of diabetes on individuals and families, and the important role they play in the prevention and control of the disease. Diabetes is a chronic condition that occurs when the body cannot produce enough insulin- type 1 diabetes or cannot effectively use insulin it produced - type 2 diabetes. Both are diagnosed by observing raised levels of glucose in the blood. The prevalence of diabetes in adults is increasing worldwide, and it is predicted that by 2040, this condition will become one of the leading causes of death in South Africa. The International Diabetes Federation (IDF), Diabetes Atlas, also estimates that one in 11 adults currently has diabetes, and globally, the condition accounts for over 12.8% of deaths among people aged between 20 and 79. According to Stats SA, the mortality and causes of death in South Africa in 2016 showed diabetes mellitus as the second leading cause of natural death. if not well-controlled diabetes may cause blindness, kidney failure, lower limb amputations and other complications like Peripheral vascular disease, Ischemic heart disease and Cerebrovascular disease (stroke). Department of Health spokesperson Popo Maja said having diabetes can also drain family finances. “When people with diabetes have to pay out of their own pockets for treatment, disability or premature death due to diabetes can push families into poverty. “Diabetes is also a huge burden on the health care system and the national economy,” he said. Maja added that the department is committed to implementing public education and awareness campaigns. “We want to empower individuals and families with information and education to prevent diseases like type 2 diabetes, and ensure that people have access to early detection, diagnosis and treatment. “The department also urge everyone to eat healthily, be physically active and avoid excessive weight gain. Families can help to drive down diabetes through promoting healthy lifestyles and supporting family members with diabetes. We all have a role to play,” he said. POST