DURBAN - Parents are struggling to spot the warning signs of diabetes in their own children, a new study by the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) has revealed ahead of World Diabetes Day, on Wednesday. The research was conducted through an online survey to seven of the world’s most affected countries, the United Kingdom, Brazil, China, India, South Africa, Turkey and the United States. The research shows that South African parents struggle to spot the serious life-long disease in their own children. Despite the majority of people surveyed, seven in 10 reported having a family member with diabetes, while an alarming three-in-four parents would have trouble recognising the warning signs and two-in-five reported they would not be able to spot diabetes at all. IDF President, Professor Nam Cho, said the lack of knowledge about diabetes meant that spotting the warning signs was not just a problem for parents, but was an issue impacting society. He said the findings underline the need for education and awareness to help people spot the diabetes warning signs early. “Four-in-five adults across the globe failed to correctly identify the warning signs of diabetes in the IDF study. This is a major concern, due to the signs being milder in type two diabetes, the most prevalent form of the condition, responsible for around 90% of all diabetes cases,” he said. Cho said encouraging families to learn more about the warning signs of diabetes plays a vital role in spreading awareness of the disease. “If left undiagnosed or untreated, those living with diabetes are at high risk of blindness, amputation, kidney failure, heart attack and stroke. Diabetes was responsible for four million deaths in 2017,” he added. To mark diabetes awareness month and World Diabetes Day, the IDF has urged families to learn more about the warning signs of diabetes. The warning signs can include: excessive thirst, frequent urination, a lack of energy, blurred vision, slow healing wounds, and numbness in the feet or hands.  Sunday Tribune