In the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court on Friday, the owner of Party Themes and Decor, Kavina Rajcoomar, sought an urgent harassment order against Swasthie Singh. She described Singh as a “psycho woman” and claimed she had been stalking and harassing her, using the fake social media profiles, since 2016. Rajcoomar claimed Singh used the fake profiles to write on her Facebook business page. “She says that I am a shameless human being. She has called me a prostitute, whore and b**** . Can the court please protect me from this woman? I don’t want anything to happen to me or my family. She is a psycho woman,” Rajcoomar pleaded in her affidavit. Singh has until next month to file responding affidavits. Rajcoomar further claimed that Singh had suspected her of having an affair with her boyfriend, a married man. In her affidavit, Rajcoomar alleged that Singh had initially created the two fake Facebook profiles - with the alias Zia Abbas and Cindy Pillay - to communicate with her lover. “She (Singh) used the fake accounts to keep the relationship a secret from his wife.” Rajcoomar said Singh was now using the same profiles to harass her and her family on social media. “She has been going on social media, degrading me on my business page ‘Party Themes and Decor’ and on my personal Facebook page. She also had my son’s picture on one of her fake profiles.” According to Rajcoomar, Singh’s lover was her (Rajcoomar’s) manager at one of her former companies in 2010. “They would cheat on this Zia Abbas Facebook account. He showed it to me (when we worked together) and said this was Swasthie Singh, who is also known as Sweetie “She had an affair with this married man at a time when they worked together. They both were fired because of the affair,” Rajcoomar said. Rajcoomar said she was in a happy relationship with her boyfriend, Salim George Essop. She said in the past two years, Singh had also been messaging her brother, sister, aunt and Essop and on some occasions contacted them from her phone without hiding the number. In her court application, Rajcoomar attached screenshots of graphic messages to Essop as well as defamatory public messages Singh allegedly wrote on Rajcoomar’s business and personal social media accounts. She claimed Singh had even threatened her son and insinuated that Rajcoomar was a drug addict, had Aids and was cheating on Essop. “I am afraid for my life as this lady is unstable. I have my family and live happily with them. She continued to call and swear at my 10-year-old son and threaten him. "We are afraid to come out of the house, open our windows or curtains. She uses terrible language all the time and that has really affected me. I have trust issues and fear for my life and that of my son.” She said Singh had been seen parked outside her home and claimed she had camera footage to prove it. Rajcoomar also attached a Section 205 police report. She said the private numbers showed that Singh had made the phone calls. POST