Questions are now being raised as to how Nezeera Sheik, a Grade 7 pupil at Morelands Primary School, acquired the gun. The teenager was being raised by her aunt and uncle after her mother, Zora, died four years ago. Her father was estranged. She ended her life on Friday, a day after her late mother’s birthday. In a suicide note to her guardians, Sarah Banu (her mother’s sister) and Ravi Reddy, Nezeera expressed her love and gratitude to them for caring for her over the years. Nezeera took her life at the Reddys’ Moorton, Chatsworth, home. A distraught Ravi Reddy said they were baffled as to how Nezeera came to be in possession of the gun. He said they did not own any firearms. “I believe Nezeera committed suicide because she could not cope with the loss of her mother. Zora died after a short illness and Nezeera moved in with us and our two sons. “She was fond of us as we had cared for her since she was a little girl. She came from a poor home and we always lent our support to her and her mother. “We took her into our home after Zora’s death because her father was unable to care for her. To our family, Nezeera is not a niece or cousin but a daughter and sister,” said Reddy. He said Nezeera had posted a WhatsApp tribute to her mother last Thursday. “She had posted a status update on WhatsApp saying how much she loved and missed Zora. But she showed no signs of distress or unhappiness.” Reddy said on the day of the tragedy their home was being renovated and it was noisy and dusty. “Nezeera had been in her bedroom. One of my sons saw her writing something but did not think much of it.” He said about an hour later he heard a loud bang. “At first he thought a tile had fallen and broken. But I followed the sound to my bedroom where I could smell smoke. “My wife was a few steps behind me and as I opened the door I saw Nezeera covered in blood at the foot of my bed. My wife screamed and cried, saying ‘See what my baby did!’ It was too much for us and our sons. I cannot explain how we felt.” Reddy said they could not believe she had taken her own life. He contacted the police who later found a suicide note in her bedroom. It said: “I love you Ravi Daddy, please forgive me. I appreciate everything you have done for me.” The family went through her cellphone looking for answers, and learnt that in the days leading to the shooting she had watched YouTube videos on how to use a gun. “This completely broke us. I don’t like guns and I don’t own one and neither do my sons. I have no idea how, where or who she got this firearm from.” Distraught  He said a relative had previously shot herself and Nezeera had told him she would never try to do something like that. A distraught Reddy said the teen was the “light in our home”. “She was bubbly, respectful and well-mannered. She would never say or do anything to hurt people and was a star pupil.” Nezeera had always achieved an A aggregate and looked forward to starting high school at Arena Park Secondary School. He said when she had learnt her school fees had been paid in advance, she had hugged and kissed him. Shaking his head in despair, Reddy said he had given her everything she wanted. “We did not know what she was going through emotionally. To us, she looked happy, but now I realise she must have been suffering from depression.” He added that depression, anxiety, peer pressure, bullying and relationship issues were real problems and parents had to be aware of their children’s behaviour. Police spokesperson Nqobile Gwala said an inquest docket had been opened. She said the firearm was found next to the body and had been sent for ballistic testing to determine if it was licenced. POST