According to the by-laws, fireworks can be set off during the day and into the night on November 6 and 7. As complaints on social media stream in, the South African Hindu Maha Sabha has called for those prematurely setting off fireworks to be prosecuted. Sabha president Ashwin Trikamjee said that while the Constitution guaranteed respect for all faith groups and cultural practices, the issue of fireworks violations flaring up was an annual challenge. “Annually, Hindus face unfair criticism based on the intolerant attitude of many non-Hindus. In the last five years, we worked with authorities to permit the use of fireworks on designated days and hours.” He said this resulted in a tolerant attitude and a substantial drop in attacks on Hindus. “Unfortunately, many people, not always Hindu, still indulge in breaking the law and must be prosecuted. We call on all Hindus to observe the days and times (to burst fireworks) so as to respect others.” Diwali will be observed by the Tamil community on November 6, and by the Hindi, Telugu and Gujarati community on November 7. Tempers have flared on Facebook over those violating the by-laws. A Phoenix resident complained that she resorted to driving around her area, searching for the culprits as they had frightened her dogs. The chairperson of the Phoenix Community Forum, Umesh Singh, said the fireworks had been heard from last weekend. “Apart from causing severe trauma to animals, the loud bangs are being mistaken for gunshots. Residents have called the police and security companies, fearing it was gunfire.” He encouraged the community to speak up if their neighbours were breaking the rules, so those found guilty could be fined or prosecuted. The chairman of the Chatsworth Police Forum, Jakes Singh, said: “Yes, fireworks are part of the celebration, but the rules must not be flouted. Be mindful of others.” The city’s acting head of communications, Mandla Nsele, said if a complaint was lodged, a warning would be issued to the transgressor by the metro police. “On the second call-out, a summons will be issued for the appearance in court on a specific date, or a fine may be imposed.” Meanwhile, fireworks importers said despite the tough economic climate, sales were steady.