Durban - The Department of Health has made provision for almost 1,7 million people from KZN to receive their chronic medication closer to home thanks to the Central Chronic Medicine Dispensation and Distribution (CCMDD) programme The Department said the move was aimed at people spending less money on travel costs or having to wake up early and stand in long queues at congested healthcare facilities. Since the launch of the CCMDD programme in 2014, 4557 chronic medication pick-up points have been established across the province. KZN Health MEC, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, officially opened Ombimbini and KaHhewulana clinics under Ulundi Municipality on Friday. “We are very pleased with the success of this programme,” said Dhlomo. He said those living with diabetes, HIV, hypertension and other ailments only have to collect their medicine once after every three months. "They are able to collect their medication at libraries, community halls, tribal courts and other local amenities. The medication is pre-packaged and all looks the same, which helps eliminate stigma because no-one can tell what the medication is for. The CCMDD programme has reduced waiting times, improved access to chronic medication and decongested our health facilities. It has also helped to improve adherence to treatment," he said. Dhlomo encouraged residents to take advantage of this programme. "It is extremely convenient for patients and us as healthcare workers because it has the potential and impact to reduce long queues because we see patients once every 90 days," he said. Patients who wish to use the CCMDD programme need to register at their nearest health facility and choose the pick-up point that is convenient to collect the medicine from. Dhlomo said patients need to carry their IDs, passports or permits to register. Collection dates are written on the collection cards. Patients will receive updates on the delivery of their medication via SMS. They can also register for other people to collect the medication on their behalf. For inquiries, call the toll-free number 0800 070 070 or send a “please-call-me” to 073 161 7102. Daily News