The progress report heard at the KwaZulu-Natal social development portfolio committee meeting revealed that the facility did not fully comply with the national norms and standards set out in the Children’s Act No. 38 of 2005. In July 2016, a fire raged through the cottage in Sea Cow Lake, claiming the lives of the boys, aged between 8 and 21. The victims - Minenhle Ngcobo, Sibongiseni Nxumalo, John Shusha, Sfundo Ndlovu, Gabriel Mbambo, Ajesh Gangerpasad, Sandile Duma and Fikisani Chala - were asleep when the fire broke out. The Department of Social Development appointed a task team to investigate the incident. Their findings revealed that out of 30 norms and standards, only two were complied with, 17 were partially-compliant and 11 non-compliant. The cause of the fire has not been revealed. When questioned about the norms and standards that the Centre had not been compliant with, Social Development MEC Weziwe Thusi’s spokesperson, Ncumisa Ndelu, said the department would not divulge further information until the families were informed. “We currently have a team of social workers, specialising in dealing with trauma, that will go out to the families to inform them of the contents of the report. This process will open old wounds, therefore our social workers are equipped to provide that support. “We have also requested that the Centre provide the department with their turn-around strategy plan, to ensure that they are aligned with the Children’s Act, so that nothing like what happened will occur again,” said Ndelu. DA KZN spokesperson on Social Development, Sharon Hoosen MPL, described the report as an “insult” to the bereaved parents and families. “This incident is yet another indication of the overall lack of monitoring and safety management from the Department of Social Development in the province. The MEC must come clean and inform the community if the Centre, in its current status, has the best interests of the children at this facility. “Children’s homes provide a place for physically and mentally abused children, therefore matters relating to compliance must be attended to as a matter of urgency and the delaying tactics should stop,” said Hoosen. A new four- bedroom cottage was been built, following a donation of R2.5milion from the Sibaya Community Trust in May this year.