Durban - The N3 at Van Reenen’s Pass is set to undergo major rehabilitation and reconstruction from mid-November that will last at least 22 months. Van Reenen’s Pass, linking the Free State to KwaZulu-Natal, winds through undulating terrain and at 1 768m above sea level is prone to extreme weather conditions. This section of the N3 Toll Route often poses traffic management challenges where congestion and delays can be experienced. According to N3 Toll Concession spokesperson, Con Roux, roads have a limited lifespan. On-going maintenance, regular rehabilitation and reconstruction of sections of the N3 Route is required to ensure high mobility and safety standards. “Therefore, we follow a tightly managed rehabilitation programme along this busy route,” Roux said. Van Reenen’s Pass rehabilitation project The rehabilitation work entails the reconstruction of all traffic lanes in both north- and southbound directions. During this period the truck lanes will be reconstructed and the other lanes will be repaired and receive a new asphalt surface. “Work will take place in sections, approximately two-kilometres long. Although only a single lane will be closed to traffic at a time, congestion and delays can be expected whilst work is in progress,” Roux said. N3TC is acutely aware of the disruption that road construction may cause to the free flow of traffic, and appeals to road users to be patient, and give consideration to their safety and the safety of the construction workers whilst this essential work is being performed.  A comprehensive traffic management plan is in place to minimise disruption and limit inconvenience to road users. At all times at least one lane will be open to traffic, and if required, traffic will be accommodated contra-flow in lanes where construction is not underway. Careful consideration has been given to the time frames of the road works programme to ensure that all lanes are open to traffic at peak traffic periods such as the December holiday season and the Easter long weekend. Construction work on Van Reenen’s Pass will cease on December 14 and will commence again on January 8, 2019. Road users are reminded that traveling speed limits are lowered in construction zones – as a safety measure – and are requested to adhere to these limits. It is strongly recommended to anyone planning to travel the N3 Toll Route obtain essential, real-time traffic information by contacting the 24-hour N3 Route Helpline on 0800 63 4357 or by following N3TC on Twitter: @N3Route. Any problems on the N3 Toll Route can also be reported to N3TC via this number or Twitter. Daily News