After a recent radio show on bullying in the workplace, I’ve been inundated with calls and messages to spread more awareness. My main aim is to help victims cope with the trauma they have experienced and at the end of the article, I offer practical tips and advice on what to do if you are being bullied at work.  What is Bullying? The obvious type of bullying that we are aware of is physical intimidation and verbal aggression. However, there are other forms of bullying that are not often regarded as such.  These include: * Having one’s work sabotaged * Someone else constantly taking credit for your work * Setting one up for failure (by setting unrealistic deadlines, etc) * Unfair and unwarranted criticism * Having one’s abilities undermined * Being excluded from events, important meetings, emails, etc * Having malicious rumours spread about one * Casting aspersions on the character and work ethics on an employee  Bullying is not a once-off event but rather a pattern of behaviour that is intended to cause harm to another.  Why does an adult bully another adult? It’s often a quest for power. Typically, the bully feels inferior in some way - however, this is not obvious. They may present as extremely confident, sociable and charming, which makes it harder for some to believe when you eventually speak up. They warm up to those in positions of power so the chances of them being exposed are decreased, and even if they are exposed, they rarely suffer consequences. Perpetrators generally cannot compete fairly and therefore resort to malicious tactics so the stronger person (the victim) appears weaker to others. Another key aspect of bullies is that they easily assume the victim role at strategic times to prevent being “found out”. In order to divert attention from the harm they have caused to others, they make up stories of how they have been harmed to gain sympathy and attention from others in significant positions.  Who is a Typical Victim of Workplace Bullying? Victims of workplace bullying are targeted because they are perceived to be a threat in some way. They are often skilled, talented employees who are gaining recognition and popularity. As previously mentioned, if the perpetrator cannot compete fairly, they resort to underhanded methods to destabilise the victim. If you are being bullied, do not think of yourself as being weak. The only perceived weakness is that you may not assert yourself (however, standing up to the perpetrator is not always the solution - this is discussed further later on). My advice to victims is to continue to work to the best of your ability as your work will speak for itself.  What are the Consequences of Bullying? Victims experience severe stress which impacts on their ability to focus on work. Depression is not uncommon - I’ve even seen cases where employees felt suicidal due to the depth of bullying. The reason for this is because we spend most of our waking lives at work, so we identify too much with our careers. We therefore take any unhappiness or perceived failure in our jobs as a personal failure, which is not the case. Many employers do nothing to prevent or end bullying, not realising the impact on their companies. The consequences on the company are decreased productivity, absenteeism and decreased turnover.  So, what do I do if I’m being bullied? My first piece of advice is to document everything! Keep a record of all incidents because it may become useful later on. If the bullying is obvious to others and only if you feel safe to do so, ask the perpetrator to stop their behaviour - but only do this in the presence of a witness. If you have superiors in the workplace who are supportive, report all incidents to them and proceed your reporting higher up the hierarchy. Always keep proof of all correspondence. Consider whether legal steps may be required. * Beekrum is a psychologist, marital therapist and mental health blogger in Durban North. You can follow her on Facebook (Rakhi Beekrum -Psychologist) and Instagram (@rakhibeekrum). Her website is www.rakhibeekrum.co.za POST