Social activist Yusuf Abramjee has lodged a formal complaint with the CRL Commission against Pastor Johan van Wyk, while the South African National Halaal Authority is pursuing legal action against him. The authority’s public relations officer, Ebi Lockhat, said: “This wayward pastor and self-appointed prophet has launched a vitriolic attack on the Muslim community with the blatant falsehood that fees from halaal certification are used to fund terrorism worldwide. “This is not only inaccurate but highly defamatory and is hate speech. This malicious attack will not be allowed to go unchallenged and legal action as well as reporting the matter to the Human Rights Commission is being pursued.” On Saturday night, Van Wyk posted on Facebook: “We are taking a stand. Even if it is a handful of us. We are starting today. God will give us the victory! We will stop this evil. Each one must just make the sacrifice and do what they can.” The post further stated that people needed to pray and stop buying halaal and encourage others to do the same. On Monday, Van Wyk, from Solid Rock Foundation, said he posted the message after watching an eight-minute clip sent to him, and was standing by his words. “In the clip, it says there are 2-3%of Muslim people in South Africa and 85% that are Christian but 95% of the products we buy are halaal. “My reason for posting on social media is not to create tensions among the different communities but rather to question halaal. “Why must 97% of South Africans be forced to purchase halaal foods? I understand the Muslim community wants halaal products, I don’t mind. “The shops can keep it aside at a different aisle for them but I don’t want to be forced to purchase halaal food if I don’t want to. “As a South African citizen, we have the right to purchase non-halaal foods but it seems stores are catering for the minority rather than the majority.” Van Wyk claimed the video alluded to the fact that by purchasing halaal products, people were funding the halaal organisations and also funding “Isis and terrorism”. “I am not saying it. The stories through this clip says we are financing the religion of Islam and Isis. I am not Islamophobic or attacking anyone. “I looked at the products at my house and noticed at the corner bottom of a cereal box was a halaal sign. “I felt deception, my whole thing is why are people catering to a community that is so tiny?” Van Wyk added that while he did not regret his posts, he had received a huge reaction on social media. “I never expected my posts to go viral. There’s people agreeing with what I say and there’s also some Muslims attacking me, calling me things and saying things to me.” Abramjee said Van Wyk had made a series of Islamophobic statements on his Facebook page which went viral. He was also spreading hate speech. “Among the claims, he says the money from halaal foods is going to terrorism. Van Wyk needs to apologise to the Muslim community and withdraw his malicious and false statements.” Meanwhile, the president of the South African Muslim Network, Dr Faisal Suliman, questioned why Van Wyk did not have any issue with kosher products as well. “Most products also have the Jewish sign to indicate the product is kosher. Why is this not an issue for the pastor as well? The halaal certification is to indicate consumer protection and also shows the products are healthy and have not been cross-contaminated.” Speaking on “financing Islam”, Suliman said when products were purchased, some of the money went towards the administration costs of getting the halaal certification. “The information that this funds terrorism is ridiculous. Halaal is a religious requirement like kosher is a requirement for Jews. Is he suggesting that kosher also funds Palestine? It is a ridiculous argument to make.” POST