Durban - Wentworth residents have vowed to continue using e-hailing taxi services, despite incidents of intimidation by members of the local taxi association on Friday. In recent weeks, e-hailing taxi service drivers have been told not to operate in Wentworth. According to residents, there have been a number of attacks on drivers, including on Black Friday. On Facebook, a resident said a Taxify driver was questioned by two men. The post said the driver was firm with the men and refused to back down. Speaking on the basis of anonymity, a businessman who has invested in the e-hailing services available in South Africa, said the local taxi association was threatened by the competition. "First it was an issue when our cars picked up passengers at Checkers because they said they were paying a fee to the rank and we were taking their passengers. But I might add that people request us via an App. The drivers are then checking the amount of App messages because our drivers park at the exit where there are taxis. So they started harassing the drivers and demanded that they must pay them R150 every time that they are requested to pick up a passenger or else buy them a coke and something to eat," he said. He said his drivers were then told where to drop off or pick up passengers. "We had a meeting amongst ourselves to change that. Now they are stopping our drivers and pushing them around. Passengers are also being harassed, even when they are in the vehicles with their children," the businessman said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video Wentworth ward councillor, Aubrey Snyman, said he has spoken to the chairperson of the Auswent Taxi Association. “He advised me that it was suggested with members of Uber/Taxify to come up with four members and the association with four members to form a committee to have a meeting next week to sort out this matter. In the meantime the Uber/Taxify needs to comply with App and not deviate from it,” he said. Meanwhile, police have said no cases of intimidation have been reported to them. Daily News