Illegal dumping continues to plague Durban, with rotting waste becoming a breeding ground for rats and posing a health risk. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson Msawakhe Mayisela said those found guilty of illegal dumping could face a R5000 fine. He said the city provided a weekly refuse removal service to 945000 households, in formal and informal areas, and there was no excuse for illegal dumping. Mayisela added that there were a number of landfills where rubbish could be diverted and that they have implemented nine new by-laws aimed at dealing with the various offences. “Among these by-laws is the Nuisances and Behaviour in Public Places By-law, under which littering is also prohibited. Enforcement is already under way and police have started taking a tough stance against offenders. Metro Police have written summonses and issued fines to those who contravene the by-laws.” Pollution  Environmentalist Desmond D’sa, of the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance, said illegal dumping on vacant plots in residential areas in Durban and surrounding areas remained a problem. He said dumping was prevalent in poorer communities, including informal settlements. “In most informal settlements there are no bins, so rubbish is thrown anywhere. This becomes a breeding ground for rats, which carry disease and are harmful to residents. Government needs to re-look and refocus its attention on its policy on recycling and waste management,” he cautioned. He said illegal dump sites killed the environment and contributed to climate change. “The pollution affects the land, air and sea, and also impacts weather patterns. Animals and birds are leaving their natural habitats due to this.” He said while drinking bottled water - made from plastic - was considered “fashionable”, glass bottles were a better option for the environment. Plastic bottles, he explained, could take between 70 to 1000 years to degrade. Andisha Maharaj, of the Ottawa Environmental Forum, said illegal dumping in the suburb, which neighboured Verulam, had resulted in the displacement of the ecology. “Beavers and buck roamed freely near the Ohlanga River but we have not seen any of these in years. Previously, people would fish at the river but now there is not a fish in sight.” She attributed this to pollution. “Waste is dumped along the river’s edge and car oil from nearby businesses finds its way into the water. People are now also using the site to get rid of their old furniture.” Maharaj added: “As long as the waste is not on their property, they are happy. But people don’t realise the consequences of their actions.” Phoenix resident Sunil Haribajan called for action against illegal dumping after witnessing a man with four minors dumping waste at a park. He named and shamed the alleged dumpers on Facebook in October and it caused an outrage among residents. Leon Grobbelaar, the president of the Institute of Waste Management of South Africa, encouraged the public to separate their waste so that it could be recycled and diverted to a landfill. POST