In the case of songs like The Breakup Song (Ae Dil Hai Mushkil), Gilehriyaan (Dangal) and Sau Tarah Ke (Dishoom), these are the sounds that are most remembered for the respective films. This weekend South Africa has the chance to see the star behind these chart-toppers. Jonita Gandhi will perform in the country for the first time on November 4, at the Theatre of Marcellus at Emperors Palace in Johannesburg. In an interview with POST, the Indo-Canadian star reflected on how her popularity for her YouTube covers in the early days, led to her emerging as a force to be reckoned with in Bollywood today. “I think when I first came to India to pursue a career in the music industry here, I didn’t think beyond getting to meet or sing for people. I didn’t process the part after where people hear and get to know me,” she laughed. “ that other music directors would hear, and that audiences from around the world would recognise me. Even today, it’s hard to believe that so many people know my name or my face or my voice. I’m happy though!” said Gandhi. Those who follow her music are central to her “journey”. “Our audiences are part of our journey and without them, we’d be singing to ourselves which is good too, but life’s better with friends,” she smiled. She recalled a significant moment in her life when the words of her younger self spoke life into a long-time dream to sing. “A few years ago on one of my trips home I found a diary I kept as a teenager. I had written about wanting to be a Bollywood singer and I knew that was the space that I wanted to explore. “It was hilarious to read words written by the teenage version of myself, but it brought a sense of genuine happiness that I had an inkling back then of what made me happy and that the universe aligned to make it all reality.” Asked about her thoughts on the scope of Indian music in the world, she said: “It’s great to see Indian artists of all kinds - whether they’re composers, producers, musicians, vocalists, etc - crossing international borders and exploring the vast world of music and tapping into new audiences. “There are some really talented individuals out there, who deserve the opportunity to have their work heard internationally, whose work audiences of various walks of life can connect with.” On coming to South Africa and her performance here, Gandhi said the band are excited. “We’ve prepared some new songs and are looking forward to singing and dancing with you all soon. I heard that South Africa is a beautiful place. I am looking forward to seeing the sights and landscapes with my team soon,” she added. Born in Delhi, India, Gandhi moved to Canada at an early age. She started performing on stage at the tender age of four, and has managed to pursue an exciting musical career while maintaining academic excellence at the University of Western Ontario. She made her Bollywood debut in the title track of the 2013 blockbuster film, Chennai Express, starring megastars Shah Rukh Khan and Deepika Padukone. She has also featured on MTV India’s Coke Studio Season 3 and released two songs in the film Highway, with music by AR Rahman. * Jonita Gandhi - Live in Concert begins at 6pm. Tickets via Computicket. POST