Durban - The Melanie Kisten Dance Academy’s newest production, “Who’s The Boss???”, is all set to stage at the weekend. The new dance and comedy musical is about three best friends who are bored in their marriages and who find themselves tempted by the idea of having extra-marital flings. Kisten explained how she was inspired to pen the show: “We were on a national tour with our previous production " The Bread, the Porridge and the Mix Masala", when I happened to hear a group of people air their different views on marriage. They discussed the irritations of their spouses but it then reached a common point in that in every relationship that there is always one stronger partner (character) and a weaker one. One who always refuses to say sorry and the other would say sorry even if they were not in the wrong. I chuckled at first and then this sparked an idea in my head and I thought it would be an interesting topic to script,” she said. “This is a topic that every husband, wife, boyfriend or girlfriend can relate to. I kept an open mind with regards to the different types of couples that are together and tried not to stereotype any relationship. I have taken reality and combined it with a pinch of humour,” she added. She said when staging a live production she considers different aspects as a writer and director, especially when it comes to critics and social media remarks. “But what I intend getting across is the discrimination of gender amongst men and women. Something that has been an ongoing battle in society. If one looks at the poster, it speaks for itself , BUT we intend sending a message of equality through the comedy.” Dance elements in the production are a mixture of culture and entertaining (Bollywood, hip hop, contemporary), with music from the 80s and 90s classics up and to some of today’s hits. “I can honestly say, all of the characters in the show are my favourites. Each of them brings out the best in the characters I have written. For a few, it is their debut performance so it is going to be an amazing experience to watch their talents unfold. I believe in pushing artists beyond their limits to unfold any hidden talents, transforming, actors to dancers, dancers to actors and yes now even actors to singers.” *“Who’s The Boss???” runs at Sibaya’s iZulu Theatre near Durban from 2 to 4 November. Tickets are R130 each via Computicket. Saturday 3 and Sunday 4 are already sold out. Limited tickets left for 2 November. The show is scheduled to stage on 9 November at Gold Reef City, and 1 December at Wild Coast Sun. POST