Durban - With Eid-ul-Fitr, a Muslim festival which marks the end of the fasting month of Ramadaan on Friday, the excitement from young and old is mounting. Preparing delicious meals, getting dressed in the finest and latest outfits, giving gifts (mainly to children) and spending time with relatives and friends are just some of the activities that can be looked forward to. For mother of one, Rizwana Rasool, 26, of Overport, Eid is a joyous occasion spent with family and loved ones. “Eid morning in my home is extremely cheerful, loud and full of laughter. "Everyone is awake at 3am, while the men leave for the musjid to perform their fajr salaah and then proceed to the Eidgah, using their best kurtas and best-smelling fragrances (Ittar). “The women stay at home and perform their salaah, then proceed to the kitchen to prepare a traditional breakfast and lunch which consists of kebabs, roti, butter chicken and a vast amount of savouries and other delicacies.” Rasool added that lunch was an even bigger family affair. “We will all then meet at my grandmother’s home with what we have prepared, but one dish that has to be prepared on the day is lamb breyani, accompanied by salads and dhai (sour milk). She said that together with her husband, Mohamed, and their 2-year-old son, Mohamed Faizaan, they would distribute Eid boxes filled with delicious sweetmeats and butter biscuits to their close friends and relatives. For mom of four, Safia Khan, 34, of Sherwood, Eid will be a special time to celebrate and reward her children who have kept their fast for the month of Ramadaan. She said the day would start with her husband, Mohsin and eldest son, Zaid, 12, proceeding to the Eidgah for the Eid gathering, while she stayed home with her daughters, Husna, 9, Yusra, 7, and youngest, Muhammed, 5, preparing the meals . Khan said the day was divided between their immediate family and in-laws. “We will have breakfast with my in-laws where we usually have roast chicken with savouries and extras. Lunch is spent with my family. My mom will prepare a breyani and the traditional Eid milk. "The entire family gathers for a warm and hearty meal with plenty of desserts after main meals. “The Eid gifts are usually money (eidy) and a personalised token - a symbol for all the efforts the children have made all month. "For them to wake up every day at 4am and remain without eating until after 5pm, despite having to go to school and write exams, is no easy feat. So we like to acknowledge and reward their efforts,” said Khan. For little Husna, Ramadaan and Eid is her favourite time of the year. “I managed to keep all my fasts so far this year. It was not difficult because the days were quite short. “My favourite time of the day is breaking fast in the evening with my family as we sit together and enjoy samoosas and milkshakes. “Fasting has taught me that although I know I am going to have a delicious meal at Iftaar, there are some children who don’t have food at all. I have also learnt to be grateful that I have food to eat, a loving family and a beautiful home,” she added. POST