Durban - The man who referred to Indians as “f****** charous” and “low class rubbish with no morals” is sorry, promising to not engage in any similar conduct in the future. “I tender this humble apology in good faith and can ensure that I am taking this opportunity to enlighten myself and to become more aware of those around me and learn about my neighbours and other’s cultures.” That’s what Alexander James Williams “Will” MacGibbon told the South African Human Rights Commission as part of a deal struck with the commission and the SA Hindu Darma Sabha, the complainant in the matter. MacGibbon said he meant no offence when posting anti-Indian comments on Facebook during Diwali celebrations in October 2016. He was apparently upset about the fireworks. The post, which went viral, reads: “F****** charous and the s***! No consideration. They are supposed to revere animals, with a cow being sacred, but as my friend from India once said, the f****** charous sent here from India to cut cane were all low class rubbish with no morals. It shows!” Sabha president Ram Maharaj accepted the apology and warned would-be offenders. “Let this serve as a fair warning to anyone who dares denigrate our glorious Hindu religion or culture in future, that there will be significant consequences.” MacGibbon was also ordered to pay a fine of R20000 to the Aryan Benevolent Home (ABH) in Chatsworth and serve 50 hours of community service at the Ramakrishna Centre in Glen Anil. The ABH, which is running at a R450000 deficit a month, said they were grateful to be able to feed more hungry mouths. “This money is greatly appreciated and will go a significant way in meeting the deficit,” said director Nirode Bramdew. He said the ABH, which cares for the aged, frail, orphaned, mentally and physically challenged and for abused women and children, has embarked on an expansive refurbishment and renovation programme at its Bhai Rambharos Home. “We are currently fundraising for that initiative as well.” On the outcome of MacGibbon’s case, Bramdew said: “Whilst we have received this windfall, we hope that this unfortunate racist incident will not recur on social media platforms in a multi-cultural and diverse South Africa.” The ABH has thanked the Sabha for the donation, describing it as “an inspiration.” Meanwhile the Ramakrishna Centre, which seeks to spread harmony of religions through Sri Ramakrishna’s experiences, has confirmed that MacGibbon has yet to commence his community service. POST