Durban - Muslims throughout the world will soon be celebrating Eid-ul-Fitr to signify the end of the Holy Month of Ramadaan, the month in which Muslims observed fast from dawn till dusk in obedience with the decree of our Creator, Allah. Eid-ul-Fitr is celebrated on the first day of Shawwal, the tenth month of the Islamic calendar. This day has been chosen by the Almighty for the celebration of Eid-ul-Fitr, one of only two annual festivals recognised by the Shariah (Islamic constitution). This joyous day is intended to serve as a sign of gratitude by the Muslims on the accomplishment of Ramadaan and as an immediate reward by God for those who spent the holy month fasting and performing other forms of worship. Eid-ul-Fitr is a day of joy and happiness for those who had kept the fast, abstained from all evil and backed it up with kindness, charity, good deeds and the appreciation for the creation of Allah. It is a day of thanking our Creator for giving us the courage to fulfil this important duty and for the opportunity to spiritually enhance ourselves. Eid is a time to show the moral consciousness attained through fasting by sharing one’s fortune with the poor and needy, visiting friends and relatives and by spreading love, compassion and kindness. Islam has prescribed a simple yet graceful way to observe the joyous day. First, it is mandatory on all wealthy Muslims to start their day by disbursing Sadaqatul Fitr to the poor people of their community, so that they, too, may enjoy the day, along with others, and not be concerned about earning their livelihood on at least this one day of happiness. After paying the Sadaqatul Fitr, Muslims are required to proceed to an open place where they can offer the Eid prayers collectively. In this way, they are expected to present themselves before their Creator and offer prayers which allows them to commence their celebration with divine blessings. After the prayer, a Muslim is free to enjoy the remainder of the day with friends and family. Islam promotes the maintaining of family ties. As such, these occasions are a perfect opportunity for families to convene and enjoy spending time together. Eid-ul-Fitr will be celebrated in South Africa on June 15 depending on the sighting of the new moon. Further information on Ramadaan or Eid is available at www.jamiat.org.za. The Jamiatul Ulama KZN wishes all Muslims a joyous Eid. POST