Durban - Youth day serves an annual reminder to the people of South Africa to honour the contribution our brave youth have made to winning freedom for all. An array of celebrations, concerts and charity drives are on the agenda this weekend as citizens look to brighten the lives of our youth. The main focus of Youth Day is often on to the events of 1976 in Soweto; however it is known that students across the nation participated in the uprising. The Chatsworth community will celebrate one of its great heroes, Lenny Naidu, this Saturday at 10.30am at the Bayview Community Hall. This year marks 30 years since Naidu was murdered by apartheid death squads who were hunting down activists in neighbouring countries. His comrades formed the Lenny Naidu Development Institute as a tribute to him and the freedom fighters who were part of the Golela 9 killed in 1988. Social runners and fitness freaks from across Durban will set their marks at the Moses Mabhida Stadium for the fourth Ntenga Foundation Charity Run-Walk this Saturday. The Ntenga Foundation is a non-profit organisation and all funds raised from the event will go towards providing new school shoes for underprivileged children in KwaZulu-Natal. The race will start at 7am and end at 9am. The finish line is at uShaka Marine World. The entrance fee is R120 for both the 5km and 10km distances. Entrance is inclusive of admission into uShaka Marine World’s Wet ‘* Wild. The Imbumba Fiesta makes its way to Bulwer Park, Glenwood on Saturday. Imbumba is a Zulu phrase and translates to, “united together in one harmony”. The fiesta entails a winter-themed market with a set up of various stalls, stands, an open concert. The market intends to showcase local artisans, support underprivileged children and convey a message of unity to participants, similarly to Imbumba. There will be a park clean-up at 8am, before the market, which is a creative way to get involved in Environment Month. Entrance is free and be sure not to miss the eThekwini Department of Parks and Recreation’s exhibit of indigenous plants. POST