Durban - Motoring enthusiasts can expect to be taken on a whimsical journey as classic vintage cars go on display at the regional Concours d’Elegance in August. Co-hosted with the Durban Country Club, the competition is the first of its kind in Durban, boasting a gathering of 200 of the most elegant collector’s cars, all competing for the title - Best of Show. These classic automobiles will undergo a rigorous judging process highlighting their historic accuracy, mechanical merit and style. “Durban is known as the motoring capital of South Africa and we are delighted to bring this exclusive gathering to the city. It oozes elegance, class, charm and sophistication in every way,” said organiser John Aritho. Among the delights featured are a timeless Mercedes- Benz 190SL, a Jaguar E-Type, a classic 1928 Rolls Royce Phantom 1 Tourer and a 1957 Rolls Royce Silver Cloud masterpiece. Concours d’Elegance Durban has encouraged visitors to dress in their finest ensembles in celebration of a timeless era. “It’s all about chic vintage style, lace, pearls, waistcoats and barrettes - clothing that imitates the style of a previous era. “We wanted visitors to take in the nostalgia and enjoy this vintage experience of fine wheels, superb fashion and fabulous food in a backdrop of class and sophistication at a Top 100 golf course in the world, while sipping on a fine glass of bubbly,” said Aritho. The History on Wheels event at the Durban Country Club, scheduled for August 12, aims to be a fun-filled family experience with activities for the children as well. “We have it all, from rare vintage masterpieces to desirable collections and particular vehicles of interest, and we are delighted to bring this all together with fashion and food,” said co-organiser Avish Maharaj. In addition, Concours d’Elegance Durban is honouring Durban’s elderly by identifying Tafta (The Association for the Aged) as the charity beneficiary of choice. “These elders are also our timeless classics and we need to extend our gratitude to them for leaving behind a wonderful legacy. “We want to make a meaningful contribution to ensure that they live their best life through their golden years,” said Maharaj. POST