Durban - Former beauty queen Lisanne Lazarus is using beauty pageants as a platform to reach impoverished communities. “I was a tomboy growing up and I was extremely shy. When I turned 10 I entered my first pageant and this gave me confidence to be more outspoken,” she said. “From there my love for entering pageants grew and I realised I could use my title to gain support of things I am passionate about.” In 2014, Lazarus was crowned Miss eThekwini. As the winner of the titile, she chose to support the Lindokuhle Crèche in an informal settlement in Isipingo Beach. “The crèche was opened after a 5-year-old boy named Lindo was killed in a shack fire. "His parents had locked him up in the shack so they could go out and look for jobs. Somehow a fire broke out and he died.” The 22-year-old said the crèche was built to provide a safe environment for children so parents could take them there instead of leaving them unattended at home. Apart from being Miss eThekwini she has also won Miss Durban University of Technology. * ENTERING and winning the Mrs India South Africa pageant was the perfect platform for Nicole Maistry, 31, to spread awareness around the lupus disease. The mother of two, from Effingham, was diagnosed with lupus 11 years ago and started a comfort and support group for those suffering from it. Lupus is an autoimmune disease which occurs when your body’s immune system attacks its own tissues and organs. “I have a passion for helping and motivating people and that is one of the reasons why I started the support group. "But I felt I was not reaching enough people and so I started looking for a better way to get my message across. “At first I planned on working behind the scenes at the pageant, but when I looked at the criteria and the calibre of women entering I realised it was not an ordinary beauty pageant but an opportunity to make a difference in society.” Maistry said having won the title, crown and sash has given her the opportunity to be a motivational speaker to the youth, and to run her support group. POST