Opinion - Work and friends in Kolkata are often the reason I end up in the city that is also quite the cultural hub in India. Bengalis are art and literature conscious, and ever so often one can be drawn into deep and interesting conversations over these subjects. My visits are always so fulfilling as music is my field. However, my friends are always disappointed with me, not only am I not much of a food lover, I also do not have much of a sweet tooth (Bengali sweets are famous and certainly needs no introduction). Being a vegetarian leaves them quite helpless in showering me with experiences of Kolkata’s street food - Bengalis love their non-vegetarian dishes especially mutton and fish. Nevertheless, I made it a point over the years to ensure that on every visit I do get to hang out with them and relish some of the vegetarian dishes, which no doubt are memorable experiences. So, let’s dive into the Kolkata street food scene, specifically the Bengali cuisines since traditional Chinese and Tibetan food can also be found. One point about the Bengali vendors is their often friendly and ‘excited to serve you’ attitude. I remember my first snack was puchkas at Vivekananda Park. They call it the “king of street food”. It begins with a puri about the size of a golf ball, a hollow round chip that’s filled with spiced potatoes and dunked into tamarind water before being served and eaten - yes, in a single bite! Ah, I felt the explosion of crunchy spice and flavour, while I battled to keep my mouth closed to prevent the burst of watery tamarind from spilling out. Commonly known worldwide as pani puri, it is a must try to have the single bite tangy cum spicy experience. Churmur, a cousin of the puchka family, is another delicacy too hard to resist. Combined with tangy masalas, tetul gola (tamarind pulp), mashed potato and broken papris, churmur is simply heavenly. Usually, I am already filled to the brim with even the snacks, but I am told that I hardly eat much, there is still the kathi roll to try out. The well-known shop Zaika is said to be the first to invent kathi rolls that is now to be found across India. It’s essentially a roti that’s stuffed with a choice of filling and wrapped into a hand held treat - like a burrito. Chicken or mutton kebab meat and eggs are the common fillings, but paneer is also an option, which is what I tried out. If you are craving something greasy and tasty, this could satisfy you. My mother would often make the same lip-smacking rolls in my childhood that we relished during study breaks. The Kolkata street food experience will be incomplete if you don’t taste kochuri at Gangarams. The kochuri or radhabollobi is deep fried, lentil stuffed puri and is best washed down with mishti doi that is uniquely sweetened curd, a speciality only to be found in Bengal. On another visit, I stayed near College Street and was tempted to personally witness the selling of the best telebhaja in the city. Telebhaja are deep-fried snacks, and you can find everything from brinjal fries to fried fish, egg chops to mutton chops all of which sell out in a couple of hours. They are open only in the evenings from 4pm to 8pm and have people fighting to place orders. If you go after 7.30pm, the chances are you’ll have fewer options to choose from. Indians love to treat their guests with the best, and once when I replied that I really was not hungry but would not mind something to drink to quench my thirst, off I was taken amidst hectic traffic to Balwant Singh Eating house. In that heat and traffic, I thought a bottle of plain water could serve my thirst, but my host was adamant that I experience doodh cola which is actually Thumbs Up mixed with milk! It tastes unique but if you are not fond of ice, then do ensure you ask for less ice and more of milk and cola. Well worth the traffic, though I did sip on water en-route much to the anxiety of my host who wanted me to keep place for the cola. Bengalis are mostly non-vegetarian foodies, and so mutton kabiraji cutlet is one of their favourite snacks. It’s a filling of minced mutton wrapped in an egg net and deep-fried. My favourite will always be ghugni chaat served in a small leaf bowl with a wooden spoon and the omnipresent jhal muri. A very simple dish to prepare even at home. Simply mix tomatoes, onions, coriander, tamarind water and lime juice to smouldering hot yellow split peas. Nearly everywhere you look, you’ll find a vendor selling jhal muri. My all-time snack, especially during monsoon season, one can sit near the window watching the rain and enjoy the crispiness of jhal muri. It consists of puffed rice (like rice krispies), fried dhall, peanuts, random crunchy things, fresh chopped onions, a few bits of fresh tomatoes, coriander, a handful of masala seasonings, and a light drizzle of mustard oil to top things off. The ingredients are all added to a metal can and stirred up, so the mustard is fragrant throughout the mixture. It’s eaten like a bag of chips, almost always from a newspaper bag. If you are an avid foodie, there is much more to explore in Kolkata street foods and that too at the most affordable prices, but go on an empty stomach and walk a lot, especially as you will need to burn off some of all you have gorged on. * Shashika Mooruth, an award-winning recording artist, was born in South Africa but now calls India her second home. She writes about her experiences abroad. POST