Durban - Inside a dimly-lit classroom, its walls decorated with drawings and paintings made by children, Seema Yadav, 36, is teaching a group of 25 girls who are sitting in a circle in one corner. These are girls who were either never enrolled in school or had to drop out due to various reasons. They are now way behind academically compared to other students of their age. At the Udaan innovatory bridge school of Care India, almost 125km away from state capital Lucknow, such girls of 10 to 16 years are taught for 11 months so they can catch up. Every year, nearly 100 girls cover the syllabus of six years within 11 months. These girls then appear for the 5th Grade annual examination, which ensures their admission in any formal school in the state. Almost 1800 girls have been taught in this preparatory school set up by the Care India project in collaboration with Sarvodaya Ashram in 1999. The high drop-out rate among girls is a serious concern in India. According to the 2017 Annual Survey of Education Report (ASER), once the eight years of elementary schooling are completed, girls begin to abandon schools in far greater numbers than boys. While at the primary level, 5.7% of girls are not enrolled in schools compared to 4.7% of boys, the enrolment gap widens steadily as they grow. At the secondary level, by the time they turn 18, over 32% of girls are not enrolled in schools, against 28% of boys. The survey suggests that the predominant reason for girls dropping out is family constraints. The study also reveals that over 70% of out-of-school youth have mothers who have never been to school. Seema, a resident of Mirzapur district, was 17 when she first started teaching here to help support her own education. She has now been associated with this residential school for the past 18 years. Almost every girl in the school has a tragic tale to share: of domestic violence, poverty, untouchability, discrimination and maginalisation which is prevalent in Uttar Pradesh. Seema is no exception. As a child, she helplessly witnessed the horror of domestic violence for years. She would cower in a corner of her room and watch her jobless father go on a rampage in the house and take out his frustration on her mother. She struggled to get away from that environment and eventually eloped with a man of another caste. However, her struggles were magnified when her husband, Hariram Singh, died of cancer a few years after the couple were married in a Sitarampur court. Her resolve eventually prevailed over adversity and she finally managed to graduate, one a handful from her village. Seema went on to complete her post-graduation, finished her BEd and also cleared the eligibility examination to tteach in government schools. Now she teaches mathematics and life skills to girls who face similar adversities and tries to change their fate just a education changed hers. In 2017, Seema adopted a 9-year-old boy, Anirudh, from a relative. She says the satisfaction of nurturing children from marginalised backgrounds gives her more comfort than she can express in words. POST