Durban - Rajesh Gopie sees himself as serious-minded but also someone who loves to make people laugh. His recent Facebook post, however, in which he likened unruly and violent soccer fans at Moses Mabhida Stadium to “baboons”, made many people cringe in horror. He later apologised on his Facebook page, saying he had lashed out because he became enraged after assuming that a security guard, who was attacked by the mob, had died of his injuries. “It was stupid of me to do so, to say the least,” he wrote. He said those who knew him knew he would not intentionally hurt other people’s feelings. “But clearly I have in this instance. I ask you to forgive me.” He later posted another apology, saying he also called “violent whites” of European soccer, baboons. “And the same applies to people of any race - those in Russia or wherever else in the world ­humans act this way. "They are sub-human in ­behaviour, and especially when it results in the callous death of an innocent human being - it’s the worst. It is barbaric.” Gopie regrets the incident, and the furore it caused. “I love all people. I love my country and I despise criminal activity,” he told POST. “I continue to be a loyal servant and that’s about all I have to say about that.” He wants to focus on taking the arts to the next level. While many would know Gopie from the recent box office hit, Keeping up with the Kandasamys, he was around long before that. From the FNB Vita Award for Best South African Play in 1999, the Fleur Du Cap theatre award for Best Original South African play in 2001, to the Mercury Theatre award for Best Actor in 2008, he has left his mark on the entertainment industry. He doesn’t do it for the awards or for the recognition, he said - he does it because of an innate passion for the arts. “It’s wonderful to be recognised but it should not define your work. Whether you win an award or not, it does not speak to your talent. “I really want to push boundaries and do things that have never been done before.” The 46-year-old bachelor took time out from preparing for his latest production, Hook or by Crook, to sit down with the POST team at his colourful Springfield home on Thursday morning. The smell of freshly cooked curry filled the air as Gopie’s mother bustled about in the kitchen. He works between Johannesburg and Durban. When in Joburg, he lives alone in a two-bedroom flat that he describes as minimalistic and practical. When in Durban, however, he lives with his mother, who wakes up at the crack of dawn every day to cook a fresh pot of food for him, as well as roll rotis. A pescetarian (a person who doesn’t eat any type of meat except for fish), his lifestyle choice had less to do with an allergy or religion but more to do with a documentary he watched several years ago. “I saw a documentary called Kill It, Clean It, Eat It; it put me off of meat completely. I never looked back. “I, however, make a real mean quorn (meatless) mince if you’d like. My favourite meal, though, is fried fish, dhall, rice and tomato chutney.” He denied being a mommy’s boy, describing his relationship with his mother as one that was a synergy. “As much as my mom does things for me, I do things for her as well. We help each other. “Like for instance, I’m known to make the best popcorn. No one makes popcorn like me. "Bear in mind, this is not the microwavable stuff. This is the old school, seeds on the stove, with oil type of stuff. "My mom absolutely loves my popcorn. I’m also a pretty decent dishwasher, maybe even the best dishwasher in the world,” he beamed. Gopie is the eldest of three children. “When I’m not with them, I miss them dearly. “I love people, especially old people. I love hanging out with them and making sure they are included. I believe a community is only worth its salt when it takes care of its aged.” He also values friendship. “I have great friends who are loving and kind. I make a point of really knowing my friends and vice versa. “I also love to greet everyone with a hug. People need to feel the warmth and love and what better way to show them, than with a hug?” Sportswise, he loves soccer, golf, reading and swimming. “Soccer is my number one but I also love free-range golf. I have a net in my backyard that I use to knock back a few. It also helps when I need to vent my frustrations,” he laughed. Gopie said he made a conscious effort to be active and had recently started taking self-defence classes to keep fit. He begins a typical day with a glass of hot water and apple cider vinegar. “I do a bit of yoga and then work on some Indian classical singing before getting on with my day, which includes lots of production work.” POST