Opinion - “Education is the most powerful weapon.” Those are the powerful words of Nelson Mandela. From a young age, we are told how important education is, our parents work hard to send us to school, then college, but after that, we all lose the plot. Today, we find ourselves in a spot of bother. The divorce rate is higher than it has ever been, suicide is now common in adolescents and depression is affecting one in three people. Before I studied abroad, I was one of those individuals who was guilty of saying: “This country has nothing for us. I'm so glad I'm leaving.” I was in for an eye-opening experience that changed my life forever. While studying and working abroad, a colleague had asked me: “Why do you South African people leave such a beautiful country to give your skill and knowledge to countries other than your own?” I, still very ignorant, had said: “Our government does not provide us with opportunities.” I was then told the harsh truth: “What makes you think your country is the only country without opportunities?” After a long period of awkward silence, I started to reflect on my life. Education helped me to not only travel and experience different cultures, and see amazing sunsets, it helped me realise that we confine our thinking and the journey to our destinations in very narrow minds. I did a motivational talk to a few students after which I was asked interesting questions. Those that stood out were: “My parents told me I must find a job, get married and leave South Africa because this country is ruined, so why did you come back when you had a chance to escape?” I was stunned to say the least. Another young lady had asked me: “We are the only country struggling, so why is our government giving other countries our jobs and when can I run away because my parents said I must go?” I realised then, regardless of how smart and full of potential those kids were academically, they were somewhat misguided. Yes, our country is facing financial issues which are crippling us day by day, and a lot of our students are fighting for education. And the net result of this is protests and violence because educational institutions and government cannot accommodate or fund these students. Yes, the frustration is growing greater, students are giving up, and skilled individuals are leaving our shores to start a life elsewhere. While we sit and watch those brilliant minds leave, and while we try to encourage the ones who have given up, we are also watching this country fall apart because our youth feel they have no purpose. They get married, have kids, and put behind them a life they wanted to have for a life they can afford. Yet, we are the elders telling them to run. We are making them live with no hope, yet, this country is home to the most influential and brilliant minds. We blame the government and use that as justification to tell a child his or her dreams won't come true here. I feel that if ever there was a time we needed to come together, is now! And no, this is not some patriotic attempt to start making people accept our government's shortfalls, but rather this is something I hope changes the morbid and closed minds we have. Instead of encouraging our kids to get out of the country and never come back, why do we not actually listen to them? Why do we not help them mould their visions? A country is not only run by government officials, doctors, lawyers and police. Our teachers and parents hold the key to making what seems like ordinary students become a power that will not only change their lives but motivate others to dream again, to believe again. We always say the children are the future, but how can we say that if we don't encourage them to change the future. Yes, there is corruption, yes there is political chaos, but that's no excuse to give up, is it? Are our kids only to believe that finding a decent paying job, getting married, and having kids the only things they should live for? Let's face it, it's scary what society finds socially acceptable these days. We, within our communities, need to ask: how much more blood must be shed, lives lost and hearts broken? How much must we endure before we stop complaining about the state of the nation, and start encouraging these amazing minds to stay and make a difference? No government is without issues, so a struggling government is not to blame for us losing faith in ourselves, or our homeland. We make that choice. We choose to leave the country in a state. Our kids need to be given the chance to dream and find passion, and I can assure you, with a passion for a dream, a low income and a falling government will not stop the heart and will of an individual who does not know the meaning of surrender. Government is what it is, it governs, but I do not believe a government is a country or defines a country, I believe the people in that country is what makes a difference. We are only as strong as our minds allow us to be. Our educated children are the weapons. Let's encourage them to stay, dream and believe so they can together lead our people into a new era of liberation, an era of people united for the preservation of legacies left and legacies still to come. The children are our weapons, and if we continue to encourage them to leave, we then remain defenceless, and future generations will know when things got hard, we ran. * Sharad Makhan, of Pietermaritzburg, is a writer and author. POST