Durban - A Verulam man is alleged to have held his 10-year-old step-daughter captive in their home, used her as his sex slave and prostituted her to other men in order to supplement his income. The child was also allegedly subjected to sexual acts with sex toys. The 43-year-old mechanic was apprehended by security company Reaction Unit SA (Rusa) on Monday night, after a resident noticed used condoms inside his home. He was allegedly assaulted by community members and taken to hospital - from where he later escaped. He was re-arrested on Tuesday and appeared in court on Wednesday. The child was taken to a place of safety. According to Rusa’s Prem Balram, when the resident questioned the child, she told her she was being raped by her stepfather ever since her mother’s death five years ago. “The child went on to explain that she and her stepfather had moved to Verulam from Johannesburg in December last year. "He had sealed all the windows in their home and held her captive in the house while he was at work.” Balram said he also allegedly did not enrol her in school, so that she would not tell anyone about the rape and abuse she was going through. “He had also asked her to sleep with other men to subsidise his income as a mechanic. At approximately 5.38pm the man returned from work, and was confronted by the ­community. When he attempted to flee, he was surrounded and severely assaulted.” Balram said when residents entered his home they found several sex toys, lingerie and pornographic videos. “The child said that the sex toys were used on her.” SAPS spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed that a case of rape and sexual assault had been opened by Verulam police. “The matter has been transferred to Phoenix FCS for investigation. The stepfather was arrested for repeatedly raping a 10-year-old victim in Verulam. He will be charged and will appear in court soon.” Bobbi Bear, an NGO that works with sexually abused children, said it was “deeply sickened, saddened but more angry” at the alleged incident. “We work with the rape of children daily; there is nothing more horrifying than the very people who are supposed to protect and love a child committing a crime like this, and actually getting away with it for so long,” said its director, Eureka Olivier. “Where is the rest of the family - granny, aunties, uncles? Why did no-one ever question the whereabouts of this little girl? Surely over five years someone noticed that something was wrong It is beyond disgusting.” KZN MEC for Social Development Weziwe Thusi said she had heard of the alleged incident. “I would like to urge the community of Verulam not to take violence into their own hands and to let police pursue the case.” POST