Durban - All parents want the best for their children. They also realise that childhood experiences often lay the foundation for a child’s future development - for better or for worse. However, due to other calls in life, parents are not able to personally give their child as much time as they would love to. This is especially true when both parents need to work. In such cases, they need to hire the services of a caregiver. To minimise the risks that could damage their child’s development, it is important for parents to think carefully when choosing a caregiver. What to look for in a good caregiver: * Ideally, she should have previous experience in caring for babies and young children. * Be patient and mature enough to care for a fussy or crying baby. * Be willing to give your child adequate attention. She should, therefore, not have too many other duties or be preoccupied with her own issues that could distract her from child-minding. * Be compassionate and not someone who is likely to shake, hit, shout at, or ridicule a child. Nor should she be the type of person that holds back a child's food as punishment. * She should keep your child clean and safe. * Your caregiver should be able to tell you everything your child does and discuss possible concerns. Don’t employ a caregiver who: * Has anger problems, is too stressed or becomes easily impatient when a child has tantrums, cries, or misbehaves. * Your child is not happy to see her each morning - and becomes anxious or withdrawn. * Is not open and honest about what she did during the time she spent with your child. * The child has too many accidents that could have been avoided * The caregiver does not follow your instructions. Some symptoms that badly-treated children may display: * The traumatised baby will tend to see the world as a place that is unfriendly and unsafe. He will feel rejected by others and find it difficult to have good social relationships. * Childhood trauma can darken the child's vision of the future as well as his attitudes about people. * The youngster could have disturbing dreams associated with the traumatic event, or he may have flashbacks. Signs of depression could include the following: * Not interested any more in things that once gave him a great deal of pleasure; he feels a sense of detachment from others, has sleep and/or eating disturbances, finds it hard to concentrate, is easily distracted and startled. Fear of rejection pushes him to constantly seek recognition and the approval of others. When treating youngsters brought to them for problems such as depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) or conduct disorder, psychologists often find that these children have already experienced some kind of intense trauma or a series of dramatic events in their lives. Unfortunately, child abuse is all too prevalent in our society today. The powers-that-be need to be jolted into action that will give children better protection. * Dr Anand Ramphal is an uMhlanga based educational psychologist and career counsellor. www.drramphal.co.za POST