Durban - The murder of an 80-year-old Lenasia shopkeeper has shocked his community. The octogenarian (police won’t divulge his name) was apparently beaten and strangled to death with a shoe lace during a robbery at his home on Sunday morning. Police spokesperson Captain Hector Netshivhodza said it is alleged that the home was ransacked and the suspect fled with jewellery and clothing. “The victim was found at 8am when his domestic worker reported for duty. "There was shoe laces around his neck as well as bruising on his body.” Netshivhodza said the man had been living alone after the death of his wife. He had no children. “No arrests have been made at this stage, and we are appealing to anyone with information on the whereabouts of the suspect to please come forward.” Preyalan Pillay from the community group Crime in Lenasia Must Fall said: “It is shocking the rate our elderly are becoming victims of crime in Lenasia. "This is too sad that they have to go through this. Crime is starting to spiral out of control again, and there are many incidents recently.” Pillay said they have active patrollers but more police intervention and patrols was needed. “We need government to bring back the death penalty. Our government is too soft on crime and criminals. In other countries, crime is low as they have tough penalties.” In October, a 74-year-old pensioner who lived alone was found dead in her home in Lenasia. She was found bound and gagged. In May last year, an 82-year-old man was bound to a chair with belts and shoe laces for three days by robbers who ransacked his home. He survived the attack. “These criminals are targeting the frail and weak. In most of the cases where elderly residents have been killed, the common factor is the victims live alone,” local resident Risa Khan said. “We need to stop these horrible crimes from happening in our neighbourhood.” Saras Pillay described Lenasia as being a once peaceful neighbourhood. “Nowadays as an elderly person, I cannot even sit outside in peace. Criminals watch and time you all the time. We have our residents patrolling, but we need police presence.” POST