Engraved on the walls of the Hector Pieterson Memorial Square in Soweto are those words of Mbuyisa Makhubo’s mother - the boy who, together with Antoinette Sithole, carried the body of Hector Pieterson moments after he was shot - in the iconic picture we’ve come to associate with Youth Day in South Africa. The Class of 1976 and indeed others during that time endured many a sacrifice for universal education that we so liberally enjoy today. On a visit to Soweto, I stood at the spot where the 1976 uprising happened, took it all in and glanced at the various monuments. I thought  even with her child’s life in danger, a mother could have such humility and sincerity, saying it was her son’s duty. The word “youth” is trending increasingly on social media. Why has it become the new buzzword? Are youth feeling the pressure of the pressure? What are their expectations? What do adults expect of them? At a Youth Day address in 1995, Nelson Mandela said: “I am confident that South Africa’s youth is more than ready to meet the challenge of freedom. We are firm in our conviction that you deserve a better future.” Years later and even after the deaths of Mandela, Steve Biko, Swami Vivekananda and others, their visionary ideas and ideals hold true. The question remains: “Are we doing their duty?” Duty, sacrifice and other such beautiful words in the literary pantheon can only be given true meaning if we attach respect and action to them. Action - another attractive word - simply lacks meaning if the verb is not carried out. My take on the Evolution of Youth focuses on practical examples surrounding the parallel concepts of duty and action. One simple but aggravating example of this is “access to opportunities if one makes the effort to network”. I am a firm believer in being part of the solution instead of merely commenting from the side-lines, so using me as an example defines why positive youth activism and youth evolution are needed. Being right in the middle of a generation clouded by immediate remedy rather than a deep sense of clarity between choices; the need for resurgence in youth representation and involvement at civic, social, religious and political organisations, requires our proficient attention. Swami Vivekananda said: “My faith is in the younger generation - out of them will come my workers.” As we commemorate Madiba’s birth centenary, we recall him saying: “The youth are the leaders of tomorrow”. As we lend our voices to the way forward, we must ensure we do not just observe these milestones in a mechanical way, but translate the resolutions of this conference into powerful actions that inspire and empower our youth to their full potential. Merging my passion for media, skills development, language, religion and culture via an organisation called Vedanta Kshetram - an NPO aimed at youth and women empowerment as well as spiritual and humanitarian upliftment - I only live in the hope going forward that I will indeed make the difference between one hesitant choice and a fulfilling “worthy” decision for countless young minds to benefit.  *  Merisha Lalla, 32, is a media and communications graduate with an honours degree in journalism. She is currently studying towards her masters in business administration. POST