Durban - A Verulam family is having sleepless nights after their neighbour was arrested for allegedly raping his 10-year-old stepdaughter repeatedly for five years. The 58-year-old small-scale farmer, who lives in the area, said he would sometimes hear the child scream out in pain, but failed to intervene as he believed she was being disciplined for “possibly not doing her chores at home”. “We never imagined that something like this was happening,” he told POST. “We are now having sleepless nigthts from all the nightmares incurred from this discovery. To think a child was being hurt, so close to my home, is unbearable.” POST has withheld his name to protect the identity of the child. The accused, a 43-year-old mechanic, who has appeared in court, also cannot be named. The man is alleged to have held his stepdaughter captive in their home, and used her as his sex slave in a dirty room with newspaper used to seal the windows. He also allegedly prostituted her to other men in order to supplement his income. The child was also allegedly subjected to sexual acts with sex toys. The neighbour said when a female resident questioned the child she said she was being raped by her stepfather ever since her mother’s death five years ago. He said they never had an opportunity to speak to her. “There was very limited contact with the child. We would only see her when he took her along to the tuckshop and even then he held on to her, never allowing her to speak to anyone.” The child is believed to have moved from Joburg with her stepfather in December. He made his first court appearance at the Verulam Family Court last Thursday and had difficulty walking into court, four days after his arrest. He faces charges of rape and sexual assault. Claiming to have suffered multiple injuries to his ears, eyes, lip, head, back and ribs as a result of an assault from community members, the accused said he was unable to stand in the dock when requested to do so by the magistrate. He sported bruises and his one eye had been swollen shut. He also appeared to be in discomfort even when seated. His Legal Aid lawyer, Mustaqeen Ameen, carefully pointed out his injuries to the court, which ordered he undergo a full medical assessment at the Westville correctional medical facility to determine the full extent of his injuries. On Monday last week, the man was apprehended by private security company Reaction Unit SA, after community members brought the alleged rape to their attention. He was allegedly assaulted and taken to a state hospital - from where he later escaped. He was re-arrested the next day. The child is now in a place of safety. Meanwhile, angry residents demanded justice for the little girl by congregating outside court with placards reading, “Rot in jail” and “No bail”. When the police van taking the accused back to jail passed by, residents beat on the van in rage. Shailesh Ramdutt of Men Against Rape, shouted: “We want the justice minister to consider bringing back the death penalty for rapists.” He was joined by fellow members who donned pink MAR shirts, holding “Real Men Don’t Rape” banners. Sandra Naidoo, a DA northern Zululand councillor, said the government was failing the people and more needed to be done to protect children. “We can stand here and rant and rave but the legislature needs to change.” Speaking on the apparent injuries of the accused, DA Women’s Network KZN leader Shehana Kajee said: ­“Although we do not condone violence, what really struck me is that he is complaining of what was done to him. “But what about the child and what was done to her?” POST