Opinion - So you thought apartheid died and was buried in 1994, did you? You would be bowling down the wrong alley if you had that misconception. As most people go about their lives trying to implement social cohesion and not sow racial discord, sadly there are still groups that are hell-bent on preserving the last crumbs of a nefarious system that plagued this country. On the front page of this very newspaper two weeks ago, a disgusting scenario was revealed of a local sports club, where a brigade of people lost in time are still holding up a bastion of racial injustice. A sad state of affairs, indeed, to witness this in a supposedly enlightened day and age. Yet, merrily the fight goes on for a piece of property which belongs to the municipality and ultimately to you and me. The aberration known as apartheid was formally structured in 1948 and was designed to keep races apart in South Africa. Live in separate areas, use different public facilities and, thereby, have limited personal contact with one another. It trudged on for almost 50 years. However, dear reader, please note that in no way was 1948 the only time that racial segregation was actually practised. White supremacy was policy decades before. One example was the 1913 Land Act. This started the rule of black Africans being confined to living in reserves. Imagine, this was just three years after this country gained independence from Britain. What a way to start running a nation! Come 1948 and the National Party won the general election. You could say their slogan was basically “Apartheid”, literally meaning "separateness". This ratcheted the shameful practice to a higher notch. While previously it was division between white and black, now it served to separate different non-white races from each other. Also, to divide blacks along tribal lines, seeking to destabilise their potential political power. Then marriages between whites and other race groups were banned and so was intimacy between them. In 1950, the Population Registration Act became law and this started classifying the citizens by race - Bantu, Coloured, white and a fourth one called Asian. The basic framework for apartheid was thus set. As the decades rolled on, that policy was revised and fine-tuned by politicians as they saw fit, in order to divide and conquer the citizens. Of course the citizenry just did not sit back and accept everything thrown at them. They hit back with demonstrations, strikes, protests and even resistance with arms. The latter was as a result of what happened in 1960, in the streets of a township called Sharpeville. A protest against "pass book laws" turned ugly as police opened fire on the unarmed protesters. At the end of it, 67 were killed and 180 wounded, many of them scarred and injured for the rest of their living years. That seemed to have been the catalyst that made the apartheid struggle leaders realise that trying to fight the system by peaceful means would not work. Military wings were established. However, soon, many of the leaders were caught and incarcerated for long sentences. One of the most famous was Nelson Mandela, who lost 27 years of free life for the cause. It was definitely not for nought. It put a worldwide spotlight on South Africa and helped bolster the anti-apartheid movement. The killing of black students in Soweto in 1976, when they demonstrated against having Afrikaans as a compulsory language in school, added impetus to the Struggle and the attention from people around the world gained further momentum. "Pee Wee" Botha’s NP government was taken over by FW de Klerk in 1989 and a series of changes in policy and reforms began. The death knell for apartheid came in 1994. It has been a long hard road. Along the way were many casualties. People sacrificed their families and lives to ensure a better future for everybody. The soil of this country was watered many times over with the tears of the oppressed. We have come a long way and learnt many lessons. The dark clouds were lifted and a Rainbow Nation emerged. It was a baptism of fire. Fire has been said to have healing properties. Love for our fellows is the salve to heal the pain. So it was quite a shocking incident that happened to me when I was sitting alone one afternoon recently, at my friend's takeaway/restaurant within the earlier mentioned sports club. I heard a voice from the door saying to an obvious audience at the bar behind the door: “There's no sign of human life here, just one bloody bloke.” I looked up to see the face of a sozzled, ancient reprobate. Anger welled up in me, but I kept my temper in check. He was so old and decrepit that I could have bowled him over with a feather. I guess I was lucky compared to some of my associates, who were called “coolies” accompanied with a vulgar prefix by the same cretin. It is shocking to know that after all we have been through in this country, we are still judged by a few for our complexion. It is just not FAIR! * Ravi Govender is an entrepreneur. POST