Durban - Employing a nanny, domestic worker or even a relative to take care of your child can be daunting for working parents, especially with reports of children being kidnapped and killed by their caregivers or loved ones. Two months ago, 13-month-old Eden Laird was kidnapped from his home in Brackendowns, Alberton, on the East Rand. He was last seen tied to the back of the family’s nanny/ domestic worker, who had taken him for a walk. The woman had been employed by the family for two years and, according to reports, had worked for other family members before that. The kidnappers demanded a R6million ransom from the toddler’s parents in return for his safe release. Police eventually arrested five suspects, including the domestic worker, in Windmill Park east of Johannesburg. According to the Missing Persons Bureau, a child goes missing every five hours in South Africa. In 2013, it recorded 1697 cases of missing children reported to the SAPS. Bianca van Aswegen, national case officer for non-profit organisation Missing Children SA, told POST that from May 1, 2017, to April 30 this year, 124 missing children’s cases were reported. Of these, 19 involved kidnapping. “It is very difficult to pinpoint exactly how many cases are related to nannies, domestic workers or family members being involved, but in the past month we have dealt with kidnapping cases, one in which a domestic worker was involved and one where a family friend was involved,” said Van Aswegen. “However, we advise that parents need to be very cautious when employing someone.” Van Aswegen added that advertising for a nanny on websites should be handled with caution. “All social media platforms need to be handled with great care as predators tend to use these platforms as their hunting grounds. Not only will kidnappers use such platforms, but human traffickers and paedophiles will also use such means to get access to children. “This could be very dangerous as not only could you put your child in danger by employing someone through such an advert, but the whole family could be put in danger.” Although many parents opt to employ nannies through social media, newspaper adverts and word-of-mouth, Van Aswegen advised that parents seek help from reputable agencies. “Should something happen, please immediately report it to the police and do not wait. “The quicker it is reported, the quicker action can be taken to find that child,” she said. Kate Flamand, of nanny and domestic worker recruitment agency Help At Home, said it conducted interviews, reference checks, trained and conducted criminal checks on potential employees. “Working-class parents often don’t have the time to follow the full process, so recruitment agencies make it their duty to do a complete check,” she said. “Help At Home does thorough screening, interviewing and spending three days with every lady on the child-minding course, with a written and practical exam on the third day and reference checking. “Only if all steps are successfully passed does a nanny get on to our database.” Flamand said parents unable to go through an agency should cross-check previous employment history. “This can be done through contacting previous employers. “Parents should also make sure they get at least one detailed reference. “When doing the reference check, parents should make sure they ask the key questions that are essential for employment and their requirements, not just if the lady is reliable. “Always ask details about what the ages of the kids were when she started and what activities she did. This will also help you to make sure the candidate is giving you accurate information when she applies for the position. We also recommend that a criminal check is done before employment.” Flamand said the cost of enlisting the help of the agency ranged between R2800 and R3200. POST