Durban - A Lenasia South crime-fighter has died a hero after he was shot multiple times while responding to a business robbery at a large retail store. Shield Protection Services owner and well-known community member Emraan “Butcher” Mohammad, 42, of Extension 1, had responded to an emergency call-out last Tuesday when the robbers opened fired on him. He was hit in the hand, abdomen and twice in the chest and died in hospital on Friday. Speaking to POST yesterday, Mohammad’s wife of 15 years, Ruwaida, said the family were finding it difficult to come to terms with his death. She still called out to him every night, she said. “He was the most wonderful and kind-hearted person and everyone loved him. It was not only about the business or making money for him, but if anyone in the community needed help, even if it was someone in their yard, or someone suspicious on the road, they would call him, any time, and he would go out to assist them,” she said. “I remember that Tuesday morning he left home as usual to do his rounds, checking on employees. He said he would see us later, but he never returned.” Mohammad’s sister-in-law, Fatima Bloem, who sat with him in the ambulance on the way to hospital, recalled him just smiling. She said she smiled back, offering words of comfort. “He was a strong man, but he knew it was his time and he made sure that we were going to be okay after he was gone. "I remember a few weeks ago I had asked while he was leaving for work: ‘Emraan, what happens if you don’t return tonight?’ and then he started telling me everything about the business and its operations and duties. It was like he was prepared for his death. “Eid was also very special, he made sure that we were all dressed in the best clothes and the day was so lovely with family, he must have known it would have been his last. "He will be remembered as a man who was full of goodness. He took care of us and the children, including his nieces and nephews, as if they were his own.” She added that the father of three had risked his life but nobody from the store had come to his family or offered their condolences to his grieving wife and children. Clive Joseph, a long time friend and fellow patroller said he was shocked to find him shot and bleeding at the crime scene. “He lay there bleeding but talking with us when we arrived to give back-up. He joked about not putting on his bullet proof vest which was in the boot of his vehicle and he even had a smoke with us but he also had a strange look on his face while he spoke.” Joseph, who had known Mohammad for almost 15 years, was part of the Lenasia South Sector 3 patroller group with him. “He recently opened a security company named Shield. I feel the day he was shot he drove into an ambush. It was a normal day and he had gone to check on the shift guard but he was fired upon.” According to Joseph, Mohammad immediately requested back-up. “We were on our way when we found him about 100m from the store. He was shot at and drove to safety. He joked and chatted with us for a bit until he was taken to the hospital. “We thought he would be fine and we were shocked when we got the news of his passing.” Joseph said Mohammad’s death was a loss to their community. His funeral took place on Friday. POST