Durban - Many women often find themselves feeling overwhelmed with their daily lives, having to juggle their careers, children and marriages, and are often left burnt out. However, counselling psychologist Rakhi Beekrum will enlighten women on balancing their roles and responsibilities and “living authentically” at the POST Women’s Day Breakfast  at Coastlands uMhlanga on August 1. Beekrum, who focuses on mood and anxiety disorders, stress and burnout, psycho-oncology and marital therapy, said she would focus on the “Glam Quotient”, four keys to a well-balanced woman. “We are living in a time when women seem to be more stressed than ever. While women have made impressive strides academically and in their careers, women are struggling to juggle the many roles they play. "I will be addressing some of the challenges faced by women, such as women succeeding in the workplace but still struggling with gender stereotypes such as still being primarily responsible for the household and parenting. “I will also address what it really means to be successful as a woman and whether a woman can have it all – a fulfilled marriage, successful career, good health and happy, healthy children.” Beekrum said while women are thriving in their different roles, there are many unnecessary challenges. “For example, women have to contend with issues such as professional jealousy and being run down by other women. I will address how women can cope with such challenges.” In recent news there have been a number of reports of women being abused and killed by their partners. Beekrum described this as a grave tragedy, saying girls and young women need to be raised to be independent and confident so they are able to identify and escape abusive relationships. “Such education needs to be consistent across environments such as home and school. Girls also need to be exposed to powerful female role models. “Children need to be raised free of gender stereotypes. Parents need to raise sons and daughters in the same way. "Parents need to realise that children will learn from what they observe you doing, not what you ask them to do. So ensure that you set the example that you want them to follow. Both boys and girls need to be raised to respect themselves, their bodies and others.” Beekrum, who hold’s a master’s degree in psychology, is also a marital therapist, mental health blogger and motivational speaker.
She uses social media to spread awareness on mental health, wellness and mindfulness. “Not everyone has the means to see a psychologist so I hope to reach out to a wider audience to spread awareness and offer tips for meaningful living. I use Facebook and Instagram as platforms to promote mental well-being and  offer tips for meaningful living. Beekrum also joins Alan Khan on his Walk the Talk show once a month on Lotus FM where they discuss various mental health and relationship issues. Beekrum said that she was greatly inspired by the life and teachings of Swami Vivekananda. “Swami’s quote, ‘You are the creator of your own destiny’, reminds me that nothing happens by chance or luck. Where we are today is a result of past choices, therefore we must be mindful of making choices that will lead us to our goals.” Beekrum said she was in the process of launching small-group sessions for women to give them strategies to deal with various challenges. “Not everyone needs psychotherapy, but many will benefit from joining like-minded women to discuss relevant life challenges and solutions.” You can follow Beekrum on her Facebook page: Rakhi Beekrum-Psychologist and on Instagram: @rakhibeekrum Join us at the POST Women’s Day Breakfast on August 1. To book a seat, call Tashni Bridgmohan on 031 308 2557 or Kimara Govender on 031 308 2684. Or e-mail: kznevents@inl.co.za POST