Durban - Passionate about storytelling, a Durban author has published his first book, The Colours of Life, a compilation of 31 short fiction stories. Yunus Amir, 61, of Denis Hurley (Queen) Street, speaks of love, hate, loss, pain, divorce, laughter, deception and loneliness in the book, which will be launched at the SA in the Making exhibition at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday. Amir, who retired from the shipping industry after four decades, said the stories, which he began penning in March 2016, reflected life through the eyes of the world. Fourteen months later, he completed the 197 page book, which was published recently. He said it was a veritable box of stories, with some written in a creative way which would unlock one’s imagination. “I remember my days at school. Reading books were an integral part of our education. We were instructed by our teachers to borrow books from the school library, and I won’t forget the rush of elbowing each other to get to our favourite book. “This was the passion we had for reading. I hope that through my stories, the younger generation learns that writing should not only reflect history and politics but that there is a world out there, with diverse stories waiting to be told, in many genres.” Talking about some of the stories, he said one was about a young girl who wished to go to university to further her studies but was married off to an older man. “Her mother tells her when she dissents: ‘Ruksana don’t look at a gift horse in the mouth, who else will marry you with that ugly birthmark on your neck? You’re lucky he didn’t even notice the blemish.” The story follows from there. “Another is about a man who walks into the library looking for a specific book written by a particular author because of a heartbreaking tragedy in his life. "The answer he is looking for lies in the book, and he is determined to find out what had happened, what it was that ruined his life.” Amir said he often liked to visit the Grannys Attic, which is run by Tafta and where the chattels of people who have passed on are sold. “It is where I sometimes buy a book or two, and over the years I have noticed many books with messages on the inside cover. For example: ‘Happy anniversary Darling’, ‘Happy Birthday’ or ‘Merry Christmas’. These were the gifts given in them days, unlike today where it’s all about the latest gadgets. “History will not remember the accountant, the doctor, the IT specialist or the judge. But history will always remember the artist, the sculptor, the writer and the poet.” Another passion Amir holds close to his heart, he said, is the fight for gender equality. “I am about girls having the very same opportunities as boys and that there should be no boundaries or restrictions depriving them the right to achieve all they wish for in life. "Denying education to girls merely extends the cycle of poverty. Sadly, in many parts of the world today, this inequality continues unabated, leaving families to live in poverty and misery generation after generation.” Amir said he was currently working on the novel In the Midnight of my Imagination, which he planned to complete at the year-end. In his spare time, he enjoys listening to gazals (amatory poem) and playing the tabla. The Colours of Life will be available at #Hashtag Books’ online store www.hashtagbooks.co.za or email Anivesh@meb.co.za POST