Durban - As a pre-teen, Sam Pillay took on the mantle of caregiver to his family after his father’s life was consumed by alcohol. Pillay now looks after the community, fighting the scourge of drugs that has destroyed individuals and families. The Kharwastan father of two started the first anti-drug forum in his home town of Chatsworth at a time when the drug “sugars” - said to be a mix of rat poison, heroin, baby powder, household detergents and cocaine - was destroying the lives of teenagers. He teamed up with the SAPS and other organisations to conduct raids and stake-outs to nab the dealers. Pillay then went on to create intervention programmes for youth and adults who needed help to get off the drugs but were unable to afford the high costs of rehabilitation. The former teacher launched the Smart Concept Club which today prides itself in spreading drug awareness in 100 primary and high schools in Chatsworth. Owing to his late father and being an alcoholic, Pillay is no stranger to substance abuse. “My father was a good man - very creative in the things he did - but his downfall was alcohol and eventually it consumed his life,” he said. “Since I was the oldest sibling I had to take on the responsibility to help my mother care for my brothers and sister.” Despite these challenges Pillay always remained positive. “I was not even a teenager when I would wait at the bus stop to carry the baskets for the aunties returning from shopping in the hope that they would give me some money to take home to ease my mother’s burden. "I never wanted my siblings to feel stressed about our situation and I always told them that no matter what circumstances we were in we could come out of it.” Pillay and his four siblings grew up in a three-bedroom home in Unit 7, Chatsworth. His father worked in the printing industry and his late mother, Salatachnee was a clothing factory worker. “Our family fell on hard times due to my father’s abuse of alcohol. There were times when we did not have food to eat or electricity. "Some of our windows were even broken and we did not have money to repair them.” He and his siblings went on to forge successful careers in business. Pillay’s home now consists of five bedrooms, an office, sports court, jacuzzi and even an outdoor stage, from where he has hosted various shows, including featuring popular former Lotus FM presenter Ravi Govender and musician Steve Fataar. Community work was always a part of his life and as a teenager he started the Sunshine Social Club which had close to a hundred members. “Together with other members we organised karate, guitar lessons and ballroom dancing lessons. We also held swimming lessons at the local pool as well. It kept the teenagers in the neighbourhood out of trouble.” When he matriculated from Witteklip Secondary School, Pillay received an education department bursary allowing him to study to become a teacher. Instead of taking the bursary, he asked for a job. “At that point in time although it was a fantastic opportunity, because everything was paid for and all I had to do was show up for lectures, I realised, if I took the bursary, what would happen financially at home.” Pillay successfully traded the full-time bursary for a job. “I explained the situation to the officials and promised that if they gave me a job I would use some of the money to study teaching through the University of South Africa. Surprisingly, they agreed,” he laughed. Pillay began working as a secretary at Truro Primary School and when he completed his studies, taught history and economics. “I love history as we were right in the thick of apartheid and my aim was to teach my pupils about the injustices of apartheid. "Through my experiences, growing up, I wanted my pupils to know they could be anything they wanted to be.” Pillay went on to teach at Heather Secondary in Pieter- maritzburg, Marklands Secondary, Montarena Secondary and Oceanview Primary schools. Politics was also Pillay’s passio. He was a member of the NIC (Natal Indian Congress), UDF and ANC. “I was passionate about achieving the dream of a rainbow nation. I was also the regional treasurer of ANC. I was excited about freedom and the election as I believed that we would achieve a better life for all.” During this time, he met his wife Indrani, and they married and moved to Mariannhill. They have two children - Yugen, 36, a businessman and Yoshnee, 35, a financial adviser. In 1997, while in his thirties, Pillay was offered a severance package from the department and decided to take it and open a string of businesses - in property development, construction and steel fencing. While concentrating on growing his businesses, Pillay was still involved in politics but he felt the vision of a rainbow nation was not being fulfilled. “Corruption and the marginalisation of the minorities left me very disappointed and I withdrew from politics to focus on my community work and opened the Chatsworth Anti Drug Forum.” For Pillay trying to bring down some of Chatsworth’s notorious drug dealers has been a challenge. “Drug remains a constant problem in our community but it does not mean we must stop fighting against it,” he said. His life has also been threatened. “I have had people call the officers of the forum telling me to watch my back. But for me it’s all in a day’s work.” When he is not going head to head with drug dealers, Pillay enjoys reading, gardening and relaxing in his jacuzzi. POST