Durban - Witnesses who could possibly be called up to testify against three men accused of throwing a rock onto a car last year, are scared to come forward. This is according to the lead investigator, Warrant Officer Ivan Padayachee. He said Selvin Govender and his son, Nathan were well known at the oThongathi police station and witnesses did not feel safe. Padayachee was speaking to the Daily News, following the appearance of the Govenders, along with a third accused, Bhekithemba Gumbi, accused of throwing a rock onto a car last year that claimed the lives of two people. In court on Thursday, the Govenders and Gumbi said they intended to plead not guilty to the charges levelled against them. In an affidavit that was read out in court. Selvin Govender,46, who is a mechanic  said he was not near the area where the incident happened and only knew about it when a customer of his told him about the incident. He said he lives in Farmwatch near Tongaat and was about eight kilometres away from where the incident happened. Last year the Daily News reported that Amina Haffajee, 16, and her brother Abdur Raheem, 7, died on December 28, when a boulder thrown over the bridge hit the vehicle they were travelling in and crashed through the windscreen while they were travelling on the N2 between uThongathi and Ballito. The incident highlighted many other similar incidents of rock throwing that resulted in a large public outcry. Govender said he should be given bail because his business was suffering since he was locked up at Westville prison. Govender, who is a mechanic,said an engine from a truck that was in his yard was stolen. He said he was not a threat to any of the witnesses and intended to prove his innocence during the trial. Fellow accused Gumbi said he also intended to plead not guilty and prove his innocence during the trial. In an affidavit read out in court, the 21-year-old who works as an assistant to Govender said he could only afford bail of R2 000. Gumbi added  that he would not interfere with witnesses. Daily News