Durban - The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) has appointed a new investigator in the case against Morris “KGB” Tshabalala after it was found that principal investigator, Cedrick Nkabinde, had reportedly misled the Commercial Crimes Court. According to Ipid national spokesperson, Moses Dlamini, Nkabinde was the lead investigator in the case against Tshabalala who has been in custody since his arrest in January. “Nkabinde was the lead investigator in the case but was replaced by another investigator as soon as the Ipid found out that he was one of the investigators who were offered Brigadier posts by Crime Intelligence (CI) and police in return for making false allegations against Ipid management,” Dlamini said. He said Nkabinde was ordered by the court to testify in the said bail application after he had contacted Tshabalala’s attorney alleging that the case against Tshabalala was politically motivated but failed to show up because he knew very well that this allegation was false. “This resulted in a convicted criminal being released on bail due to the actions of someone who has sold his soul for the highest price. It is important to note that Nkabinde contacted Tshabalala’s attorney in June 2018 long after his suspension. The Ipid feels vindicated in suspending him,” Dlamini said. He added that they (Ipid) was aware of a plan to use Nkabinde to torpedo the case against former acting national police commissioner Khomotso Phahlane and other senior police officers. “This scheme is doomed to fail as it is based on the testimony of an unreliable person who is willing to mislead even courts of law. We, along with the National Prosecuting Authority, are confident that the case against Tshabalala is strong and it is ready for trial. This case is not affected by the latest turn of events. Another investigator has been appointed to continue with it,” Dlamini said. Ipid executive director, Robert McBride said they want to advise those who are quick to believe conspicuous fabrications that the application of circumspection will go a long way in avoiding substantial embarrassment. “The Ipid’s work in the republic is critical in exercising investigative oversight over the SAPS, the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) and Metro Police Services. I want to encourage all the honest and dedicated Ipid investigators to continue with their commitment to the rule of law, independent and impartial investigations and not to be swayed by corrupt offers of money or posts from the subjects of our investigations. It is in the nature of the Ipid’s business to expect pushback from those that we investigate. Those in authority should never lose cognisance of this fact,” McBride said.