Durban - Durban North police are piecing together the circumstances around an armed robbery at a jewellery shop, where one of the robbers was apparently dressed as a woman and wearing a weave. The robbery took place at Anastasia Jewellers in Chartwell Drive, uMhlanga on Thursday morning.  While details are sketchy, a bystander who was across the road from the shop said after he heard gunshots he saw three people inside the shop. "One of them was a woman with a weave on. The other two got out the shop going to a brown Hyundai accent. The door at that point shut and the one man was trapped inside," he said. He said the woman went back to try open the door for the man. "You could see he was panicking as he tried to pull the door open. The woman opened the door for him and all three got into the vehicle speeding off,” the man said. Messages also began flooding WhatsApp groups claiming that a woman was seen entering the jewellery store and was followed in by two men. Local businessman, Jacques van der Merwe, said he heard gunshots and ran to see what was happening. "I saw four people getting into a car and it raced off. It happened so quickly," he said.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. According to earlier reports, four armed men entered the shop and smashed their way through the glass displays, grabbing items. Seconds later, the men dashed out of the shop and into their getaway vehicle. One person was treated inside the shop after he was pistol-whipped during the ordeal. Netcare Media Liaison Officer Shawn Herbst, who responded to the reports of a shooting in the uMhlanga CBD, said the man was treated on the scene and transported to a nearby hospital for further treatment. Police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, said a case of robbery has been opened at Durban North police station for investigation. Daily News