The picture was captured from a promotional video she had done earlier for a restaurant chain and posted on Face­book page Mischief & Mayhem, which has more than 30000 followers. It was captioned “Happy Woman’s Day!” Being criticised for her appearance, especially on a day meant to honour women, left Portrag, known as Bash with Tash, in tears. The comments included “hey fatty boom boom”, “Now I know why there are so many children starving in Africa” and “Lol is that tash yoh tash with a bone stash in her mouth she hungry like a lion”. “When I saw the post, I broke down and cried for hours. I was emotionally torn. I have been rejected my whole life and endured years of bullying because I was not what people found to be the norm,” said Portrag, 32, of Chatsworth. “I have tried to break the chains and take back my self-power, but that does not mean those chains are not there. I might be in the spotlight, but it does not mean I do not have feelings.” Some Facebook users, she added, accused her of throwing a “pity party”. Portrag was equally saddened by the harsh comments from women. “We are supposed to be empowering each other, not breaking each other down. However, I am grateful for the strong support I have received from followers and friends.” She said body-shaming was a serious issue. “There are so many women, girls and even men who commit suicide because of being bullied for their physical appearance. We need to speak out. Through this experience, I aim to create awareness, to empower and teach others that it is not right to body-shame.” The creator of the Mischief & Mayhem page, Enderan Pillay, said the intention was not to start a “fat” joke or target Portrag. “Our page is about creating humour and the picture was used to wish women on the day. It is a common joke among many, including women, that they are happier when their stomachs are full. It was not meant to hurt anyone.” Counselling psychologist Rakhi Beekrum said body- shaming could contribute to a person having a negative body image and low self-esteem if they believed the messages they received, which could lead to eating disorders. “Many people judge others without realising there may be explanations for their appearance that were beyond their control. "Someone may have lost weight through depression or have a poor appetite, or may have gained weight because of a medical condition, so it’s insensitive to criticise someone’s weight. Remember that everyone has a story you don’t know. “Bear in mind images we see in the media are photoshopped and filtered, so those are not ideals to compare ourselves to. Celebrities have teams of chefs, personal trainers and make-up artists to look good, so these are unfair comparisons. Besides, their livelihoods depends on their appearance; ours do not. As a society, we must focus on improving ourselves before criticising others.” Beekrum said adults also should be mindful of telling little girls they are pretty. “We should rather applaud them for sharing, being caring or helping with chores because it will teach them to value good qualities rather than physical appearance.” POST