Durban- The Department of Transport as well MasterDrive, an Advanced Driver Training company, has condemned the social media #KikiChallenge craze in which people jump out a moving car and dance, while being filmed. Many prominent figures including some of Mzansi's local celebs such as Pabi Moloi, Enhle Mbali, Katlego Maboe and Leigh-Anne Williams have taken part in the #InMyFeelingsChallenge, IOL reported. The song by Drake In My Feelings went number one and turned into the #Inmyfeelingschallenge. However, this week managing director of MasterDrive, Eugene Herbert said a car should never be used as a ‘toy.’ "South Africa already has an unacceptably high road fatality rate. We urge South Africans not to make this statistic higher by indulging in unnecessary and reckless behaviour,” advises Herbert. Department of Transport spokesman, Kwanele Ncalane, has warned drivers that if they are caught participating in the trend they will face the full might of the law. "We condemn this in the strongest possible terms. The same manner in which we are clamping down on drag racers, we will address this new trend." Speaking about the danger Herbert said: “Use of a car in such a dangerous manner is alarming. Exiting a moving car and moving alongside it while still moving can result in very serious injuries and even death, if it has not already. In one of the more serious instances, a young man is hit by an oncoming car while dancing next to a car. Another was thrown off a bridge when oncoming traffic collided with him." He said even though many may have chosen "safe spots" there are other things that could go wrong. "Even if you have enough sense to choose a spot you believe is safe from oncoming traffic, there are many other things which can go wrong. "The driver of the car needs to focus on the additional hazard of moving with an open door and a person right alongside them. "Yet, the drivers are the videographers thus adding distracted driving to the mix. The dancers are at risk of being injured by the car alongside them as well as other objects. One video that comes to mind shows the car stopping suddenly but the dancer keeps moving right into it,” says Herbert. DAILY NEWS 