Durban - It has been a month since Durban youngster, Miguel Louw, was allegedly kidnapped while walking home from school. Despite hundreds of calls from residents about possible sightings of the 10-year-old, he is still yet to be found. This week, a source close to the investigation, revealed that they had received another tip off this week that they believed would prove positive, however despite searching at the various addresses given, they were not able to locate the boy. On July 17, Miguel had been walking home from school when he was allegedly kidnapped. Video footage later emerged showing the youngster at an eatery, just metres away from his school. The man allegedly seen with Miguel has since been arrested but has claimed he was not involved in the boy’s disappearance. Last week the 47-year-old accused made his formal bail application in the Durban Magistrate’s Court. It was his second court appearance. At his first, Miguel's mother, Raylene Louw, pleaded with the accused to tell her family where the boy was. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. The family has offered a R50 000 no questions asked reward for Miguel's safe return. Meanwhile, a Durban mother whose son went missing last year, has encouraged the Louw family to pray hard and invest in a private investigator. Salamina Mpeke’s son, Bohlale, 12, went missing from his Glenmore home in September last year. He was found at a shelter in Umbilo two weeks later. “I am following this story and it is sad because the family knows the man who (allegedly) took the child. These things are spiritual and we need spiritual intervention. They have to pray and pray hard. That is what we did. I think the family must also get a private investigator involved. They are very helpful,” she said. In a separate missing person’s case, the community is urged to look out for Siphesihle Zamangwane Dlamini, 3, who went missing during a New Year’s Eve church service in Amandawe on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast in December last year. Thabsile Dlamini, Siphesihle’s mother, said she was tormented by the incident every day. Her pictures have been shared on various social media pages since her disappearance. Daily News