But as they returned, Pillay put his hands up. “And that is when Blaine accelerated, driving into him.” This was some of the chilling testimony heard in the Durban High Court on Monday when one of the two men convicted of Pillay’s 2014 murder took the witness stand for the State. Bilal Tayob, 33, who was sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years, and to house arrest for three years, is testifying against Blaine Raman, who is accused of kidnapping, robbing and killing Pillay, after he suspected that the student had flirted with his ex-girlfriend. Pillay, 20, was stabbed more than 40 times on the night of November 4, 2014. Dinesh Nana, 32, who confessed to being involved alongside Tayob, is serving an eight-year sentence. Detailing the night’s events, Tayob told the court that he was seated in Pillay’s VW Golf parked on the side of the road when he saw Raman stabbing Pillay, as he pulled him towards the barrier. “They weren’t playing, they knew exactly what they were doing. Blaine pushed him over the barrier, then climbed over. Nana went over the barrier too. “When I saw lights coming down the road, that is when I jumped out of the car and went over to tell them a car was coming. At that time I saw Kurtlee lying on the floor. Nana was standing by his head, and Blaine was standing over him.” Afterwards they drove away. Tayob said one of the two men said they needed to go back and see if Pillay was still alive. “While driving back we saw Kurtlee was out of the bush, over the barrier and crawling on to the road. As we approached him, he put his hands up, and that is when Blaine accelerated, driving into him. “A few metres away the car began to stall, that’s when Nana and I jumped out to check. When he (Nana) looked under the car, he saw Kurtlee stuck under, he was burning. We jumped back in and Blaine continued to drive. Only when we hit a dip in the road, his body came out from under the car,” he said. Tayob told the court the men then drove to the Durban CBD to try to sell Pillay’s car and cellphone. “On the way there I said I changed my mind, I said I wanted to go home, but Blaine said we would sell the phone and get more drugs,” Tayob testified. “We drove straight to the uShaka parking lot and parked the car, thereafter proceeded to Point Road to sell the phone to buy more drugs. Blaine said he spoke to a Nigerian, who said we must come back with the car in the morning.” After a night of binging on drugs and alcohol, the three men decided to take a metered taxi back to Overport, where Raman picked up his car, the court heard. “He told us to wait in a park while he picked up his car parked on Chapel Street.  About 15 minutes later he returned and the first thing he said was that Kurtlee’s family know what happened to him, and that we are going back to the flat, the same block of flats they both lived in. “When we got there, Blaine jumped out the car, Nana and I stayed inside. A few minutes later Blaine came back to tell us that Kurtlee just passed away and we must jump out and speak to the family. “Blaine at that time was shouting: ‘We are going to catch these people who hijacked Kurtlee.’ He was saying this out loud for people to hear. After telling people sorry, Blaine said: ‘F*** this, I need to smoke some more,” said Tayob. After buying a bag of cocaine and one mandrax tablet, Tayob and Nana went back to Nana’s flat and slept until Raman called them to go clean the car before he could sell it. “When we got to Nana’s flat, we smoked some dagga and magic mushrooms that we found in Kurtlee’s car, then slept till about 8am. When Blaine came to pick us up he told us that his father said if he was involved in what happened to Kurtlee, he was going to kill him, that’s why we need to go wipe Kurtlee’s car. “When we went back to the parking lot, Blaine and Nana went to the car. I was falling asleep in the car when I heard them both shouting and running towards the car in the mirror. The first thing Blaine said when he reached the car was we were caught. “The next thing I know there was police all around us. The police pulled me out the car and we were then put in three separate vans and taken to the police station.” The trial continues.  POST