Durban - Pietermaritzburg serial killer, Kershwin Goldstone may have been handed three life terms for murdering three pensioners but his crimes still haunt the families of the victims. Danny De Waal, the son-in-law of 88-year-old  Patricia Tugwell said the family was still coming to terms with the senseless killing. He described his mother-in-law as a generous woman who enjoyed her life to the fullest. Goldstone, 22, of Woodlands was convicted in the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Wednesday. He pleaded guilty to three counts of murder and housebreaking and received three life sentences, 15 years each on four counts of robbery and five years each on two counts of house-breaking and theft. Goldstone murdered three pensioners, Patricia Tugwell, Patricia O'Connor and Roland Heathcote, between the ages of 89 - 92 in their old age homes situated in the Pietermaritzburg CBD in July 2018. At the time of his arrest, KZN police spokesman Lt Colonel Thulani Zwane said Goldstone strangled and stabbed his victims before making off with their belongings. His last victim Goldstone entered the home of the 88-year-old woman on July 31. He slit her throat, stole money and costume jewellery. De Waal said his mother-in-law did not deserve to die such a horrible death. His wife was her only child. "Even though some time has passed, the horrible manner in which my mother-in-law was killed has left an impact. Just the other day, my wife was driving and she saw a headline relating to the murder, and burst into tears." De Waal said he was one of the first people on the scene when the tragedy unfolded. He said Goldstone had broken into the pensioner's flat via a window. "On the days my mother-in-law was getting her hair done, she would leave the door slightly ajar for her hairdresser. On the morning when the door was locked, the hairdresser knew something was amiss and she alerted the main nurse." De Waal said his mother-in-law was self-sufficient and even drove herself around. She had been living at the old age home for about five years. "She was a generous old lady. Every year during Christmas she would buy each of the staff gifts." He declined to comment on the court outcome. Tim O'Connor whose mother Patricia, was the first victim said he believes justice has been served. Patricia was killed on July 11. She was a mother to 3 and had 6 grandchildren. O' Connor said he was grateful that the matter was concluded in a short space of time. In his plea, Goldstone who spent time in boys town in Tongaat, said he had been living on the streets, and wanted to rob the victims so that he could get money to buy drugs. He said being high "kept me warm". Goldstone further added that he was deeply remorseful for his actions. Daily News