Walking away with the Miss Gay Universe crown was Skyler Barrymore, 28, a specialist in the financial services industry in the Western Cape. Make-up artist Riola Maharaj, 21, of Phoenix, was crowned Miss Gay Earth and hairstylist Brayella Vogue, 19, of Chatsworth, was crowned Miss Gay World. Barrymore told POST she was honoured and ecstatic about her win. “I entered to experience the pageant scene in Durban and also wanted the platform to become a LGBTIQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex and questioning) ambassador in the city,” said Barrymore. “The girls in the pageant were fierce and did extremely well on the night, so when my name was called I was overwhelmed, but very proud.” Founder and organiser of the carnival-styled event, Farida Jalal, also transgender, said the aim of the pageant was to allow drag artists to promote themselves. “We had the ladies all represent a country of their choice and were judged on their creativity and knowledge. The pageant was also used to enlighten our Indian community about our lives as a transgender,” said Jalal. “The pageant was an all round success. We had over 300 people in attendance. We(‘re) also grateful to the Minority Front. They are the only political party to sponsor or take interest in a gay pageant.” Keeping to the theme, “beauty with a purpose”, the contestants wore their best evening wear and swimwear and also showed their knowledge of issues in a Q&A round. MF Leader Shameen Thakur-Rajbansi said the party had supported the gay community since the 1990s, when she first entered the legislature. “I took care of many patients at my pharmacy in Phoenix, who were gay and faced societal challenges. I drew up a party policy to support the gay community and ever since then, I have moved motions to acknowledge and accept the LGBT community and their rights.” She said the MF had assisted various organisations in social responsibility projects and she intended approaching the Department of Social Development to build a LGBT centre in Phoenix that would offer a support structure for them and their families.