Durban - The Durban's Central Applications Office celebrates its 20th anniversary this year The CAO plays an integral part in students future, and processes applications for what has grown to include all universities, universities of technology, most private and five TVET (Technical, Vocational, Education, and Training) colleges in KwaZulu-Natal. The non-profit organisation, in Mary Thiphe St. (previously Cato Manor Rd.), is the only organisation of its kind in South Africa. CEO George van der Ross says “We do not simply process applications. We make dreams come true. We don’t simply capture applications, we capture dreams.” To celebrate their milestone, the CAO is releasing a coffee table book to illustrate their achievements at their Annual General Meeting at the Durban ICC on September 6 . Previous AGM speakers have included: Professor Jonathan Jansen, then Vice-Chancellor of the University of Free State; Director of the Maharishi Institute Taddy Blecher; Carte Blanche investigative journalist Devi Sankaree Govender. This year, Universities South Africa's (USAf) chief executive, Professor Ahmed Bawa, will deliver the keynote address. Every year applicants also have a chance each year to win one of four bursaries, ranging from R10 000 to R20 000, as well as one bursary which covers the full cost of tuition for three years. Applications encompass over 730 programmes, grouped under 25 career directions. The CAO lists career directions- assisting in deciding career or subject choices with a self-assessment quiz. These applications can be done online, or in hard copy at their offices or partnering institutions, at the Department of Basic Education district offices, public libraries, schools and career exhibitions in KZN. Pupils require just one form and one fee for all their applications to various institutions. That fee covers submissions for up to six institutions, instead of individual payments and submissions to each institution. The CAO has grown and expanded over the years. The biggest growth has been in online applications, with a staggering 106 729 092 hits on http://www.cao.ac.za/ from March 2017 to February 2018. The CAO continues to pay special regard to rural and undeveloped areas- where electronic media is in short supply- distributing a total of 729 319 hard copy application forms this year through variousoutreach programmes. DAILY NEWS