Durban - A total of four people have been arrested at the OR Tambo International Airport for allegedly being in possession of cocaine with a street value of over R2million. Gauteng police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Katlego Mogale, said over the past three days, two men aged 53 and 48; and two women, aged 53 and 34 years were arrested in separate incidents at the airport. All four are expected to appear in court shortly. "The two men were stopped and searched as they were en-route to their final destinations. The 53-year-old man's luggage was searched and suspected cocaine with an estimated street value of R 1.3 million was found in a false compartment of his bag," said Mogale. He said the 48-year-old man was searched and through an x-ray machine it was discovered that he had foreign items in his stomach. "The suspect was taken to hospital where 13 capsules, believed to have contained cocaine, were removed safely. A further 49 capsules, also suspected of containing cocaine, were found in a malfunctioned toilet of the flight which the suspect was on." He said during further joint intelligence-driven operations, the luggage of the women was intercepted before they were about to board flights either to or via Dubai. "Both their bags were searched and it was discovered that each of their bags had secret compartments. The bag belonging to the 53-year-old woman contained cereal boxes as well as a protein shake container. The boxes and the container contained white powder which preliminary investigations indicated to be cocaine with an estimated street value of R980 000." Mogale said the second suspect was also stopped by the team as she was checking in. "The false compartment contained white powder also believed to be cocaine which was found wrapped in paper. The estimated value of this product could easily reach R680 000 if it is proven to be cocaine." The suspects are expected to appear in court this week. Mogale said the law enforcement agencies at ORTIA have no space for drug dealers/peddlers in this country. "These substances and their precursors are ravaging our communities and such arrests bear testimony to the commitment of this team to rid this country of drugs and drug dealers. Investigations are continuing." POST --