Durban - A team of social workers have been sent to kwaHlabisa in the uMkhanyakude district to assist an elderly woman after a video of the 69-year-old being violently assaulted, surfaced on social media. In the video, a 19-year-old girl is seen shouting and assaulting the elderly woman with a stick.      The video has been shared dozens on times with residents expressing their disgust at the young woman’s behaviour. According to a statement from the Department of Social Development, the team of social workers has begun counselling the grandmother and are hoping to temporarily remove her until the situation has settled. MEC for Social Development in KwaZulu-Natal, Weziwe Thusi, said social workers also visited this girl’s family to assess the situation. “They found that the girl is a grade 11 pupil with a 13-month-old baby.  They also established that the girl has social behavioural problems and will be receiving assistance together with her family,” Thusi said. She said the video is a disgrace. No young person should ever raise their hand to an older person, older people are to be loved and respected.  I am deeply disappointed that a woman that age was humiliated first by being assaulted by a girl young enough to be her grandchild and then having that moment captured and shared on social media,” she said. Thusi added that they  commend the police for a job well done, when this story broke a few days ago. “We just had a girl assaulting an older woman. We had no idea where or when it happened.  The police were literally looking for a needle in a haystack but they solved the case within days,” she said. The MEC has called on members of the public to report abuse wherever it rears its ugly head, “This video should not have been made, the person who shot the video should have assisted the old woman and reported the incident,” Thusi said. Meanwhile, the teenager has appeared in court on a charge of case of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. She was released on a free warning and will be back at court next month. Daily News 