But today, she and her husband Yogan, have made names for themselves in the Broken Promises movie franchise - earning the title “The Wonder Couple”. Since the fourth instalment of the film, Broken Promises 4-Ever, was released on the big screen in July, it has raked in over R3 million at the box office, and has taken the couple on a roller-coaster ride of fame. “We cannot go anywhere without somebody recognising us,” Moodley blushed. “During a recent trip to New Zealand, we were at the casino when a security guard rushed towards me and grabbed me. "I was initially startled, thinking I was in trouble, but I soon realised she was a fan when she repeated, and excitedly, said ‘You are from Broken Promises’,” laughed the 64-year-old, who featured in the four-part franchise. Moodley, an accounts administrator, drew inspiration for the performing arts from her father, Coopsamy Naidoo. The grandmother of one, who grew up from humble beginnings in Pinetown, watched her parents struggle to give her and her six siblings a stable life. Her father worked at a factory during the day, as a waiter at night at a drive-in, and on weekends at a golf club, while her mother, Lutchmee, helped support the family with the profits earned from the baked goods she sold. “On his days off, my father used to take us to stage productions, which he featured in and produced, including Katte Bomme (Wooden Doll) and Balla Naagama. He was a natural; a self-taught actor,” she said. “While still a little girl, there was something about the arts that fulfilled and made me happy.” While in matric at the then Durban Girls’ Indian High School, she produced a play to raise funds for a much needed library. “The production focused on how poor people were treated. I was one of the performers, and I trained the other pupils.” From here on, her passion for writing plays and poetry blossomed, but challenges lie ahead. “I was unable to explore my passion for the arts the way I would have liked because back then there were no performing arts schools for non-whites. But in my spare time, I produced plays for charity organisations and religious institutions.” Moodley said those affiliated with community organisations often approached her to assist during fundraising drives and that she was always glad to assist. Knowing she had to study to help support her family, she enrolled at private colleges and completed courses in accounts and administration. Moodley worked as a junior receptionist at a shoe company, and at age 20, married Yogan, then 26, a salesman at an engineering company. Over the years, they lived in Chatsworth, Wyebank and Pinetown, and recently moved from their four-bedroom family home in Hatton Estate, where the first Broken Promises was filmed, to a one bedroom flat in Durban’s Stephen Dlamini (Essenwood) Road. Their children are now living abroad, and it made no sense to live in such a large house, she said. “What we have now is perfect for the two of us.” Their son, Rajen, is a senior database administrator at the Commonwealth Bank of Australia. He is married to Pregashni, a physiotherapy team leader at Healthstrong Australia and they have a son, Kieran, aged 5. Their daughter, Privani Howes, is a group talent and leadership development manager at Frucor Suntory and is married to Alex, the head of tax at Westpac Bank in New Zealand. Moodley believes acting gives people confidence and helps them ignite their creativity. “You start to think differently, more creatively, I believe. I have seen how acting classes helped shy people come out of their shell.” Moodley got her big break in 2003 when the movie’s director, Kumaran Naidu, asked to film scenes in her home. “Rajen was in the first movie, and when Kumaran saw me, he offered me a role as Kamla, a passive woman who is the voice of reason to her feisty daughter-in-law.” Yogan, 68, also ended up bagging a role in the sequel. “In the recent movie, we are the image of senior love and are referred to as ‘The Wonder Couple’,” she said while sneaking a look at her better half. “I felt this role was important, given the way youth perceive love today. On and off screen our relationship is very loving.” To this Yogan said: “A successful marriage is based on mutual trust, understanding and openness. We might have conflicting views at times, however, believing in the power of love, the impact of God on our religion, having an open mind at the same time, and the willingness to compromise when faced with life’s ongoing challenges. That is something the youth need to consider.” He said young couples must realise life is no bed of roses, and that to be happy, both parties must be willing to give in at certain times in the relationship. “Prioritise, be responsible, always love, share and care. That is our recipe. It works.” When she is not acting, Moodley enjoys travelling and has holidayed in Bali, India, Singapore, Egypt, Europe, Malaysia, New Zealand and Australia. She said having a balanced life was important. “I love to keep fit and go to the gym as well as attend yoga, zumba and Pilates classes. I also enjoy walking on the beach with Yogan and reading. I’m an avid reader, and my current book of choice is 100 Memories of Madiba by Fakir Hassen. Mind you, I still write poetry and garden as often as I can.” Giving back to the community, she said, is dear to her heart. Every month the couple feed dozens of homeless persons along the beachfront. POST She encouraged fellow South Africans to support local talent.