Durban - Employees at a Durban south company have spoken about their experience following a fire on Wednesday morning. A fire broke out at Jini Trading, a Chinese company, based in the Jacobs area, in the morning. Speaking to the Daily News, staff claimed that despite the dire working conditions inside the factory, they continued to work in order to put food on the table. Workers, both men and women, who did not want to be named said they heard an explosion coming from the side of the factory. "We did not think much of it. Then we saw smoke and we began to panic. We ran to the supervisor to ask him for the keys. He was asleep. We began screaming to get him up. The place began to get hot and we saw the fire spreading. We thought we were trapped. The main gate had been closed so we had to climb over to get to the road,” one of the workers said. The group left their belongings on the desk and rushed out of the building. A row of houses in Woodville Road whose backyards border the factories was also affected by the smoke and fire. Melissa Williams who lives in a Wendy house behind had to flee with her 9-year-old daughter after it caught alight. "My daughter and I were asleep. We woke up after hearing people screaming. I could also feel the heat. When I looked out the window, I could see the heat. I grabbed what I could and we ran out of the house. My windows shattered due to the heat,” she said. Williams' landlord, Sandra Lucas, said her back wall was on the verge of collapsing because the fire had spread onto items stored illegally on the road. She said they doused the flames on the Wendy house with a hosepipe. Her neighbour Justine Nelson's geyser exploded and her roof gutters were burnt. Harry Stoffells who rents several shacks in his backyard was most distraught. His tenant  Xolilie Somacala shack had caught alight when the fire spread from the bales stored on the roadside. "I was lucky to have a water supply running to the shacks. I attached a hose to the water pipe and doused the flames before it spread,"Stoffels said. Somacala lost his few possessions and clothing that was in a cupboard and his bed. Other tenants on Stoffels property sat on the road coughing after inhaling smoke. They were sitting next to their possessions. Aubrey Snyman, eThekwini ward 68 councillor,  praised the fire department and hailed them as heroes for preventing a calamity. "There was no emergency plan in place for the workers or tenants. The residents heard the people scream but could do nothing to assist.  I am trying to get the affected residents assistance," Snyman said. When the Daily News visited the scene firemen were working in units fought the blaze among heaps of burnt material. Residents were warned by firemen to stay clear in case of items exploded. Several structures collapsed into the premises while the firemen were inside but none of them was injured. Bales of rubber, material and sandals littered Gavin Road. Workers had congregated at the side of the road keeping watch of the site office. The fire department had used four fire brigades, a water carrier, a foam carrier, a breathing apparatus tender and a command vehicle as well as 17 crewmen and four offices and a divisional commander. Divisional Commander Mervin Govender heaped praise on the firefighters after viewing aerial photographic footage of the damage.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Daily News