The 170-page book was launched at Durban’s Suncoast Casino in partnership with the chief executive of the Avalon Group, AB Moosa, who also paid tribute to his late father, Moosa Moosa, on Monday night. The Pretoria-born author said the book was drawn from his work with Nelson Mandela and included speeches by Madiba to the Indian community and the important role of Indian people in the Freedom Struggle. It also encompasses experiences and photographs from everyday people. “Madiba has inspired every one of us in some way or the other, whether professionally or personally,” Hassen said. He added that the book was significant in that it was his lifelong dream to write 12 books by the age of 65. He plans to launch his 13th in the next six months. Each of his 11 earlier books has been distributed to libraries in Gauteng and KZN. “The plan is to provide copies free of charge to major public and university libraries across the country and the first batch of 170 will be delivered to the head of provincial libraries for KZN in Pietermaritzburg today (Wednesday).” The book was published by Sammy and Shumarlan Naidoo of Apple Print and Packaging, who were instrumental in publishing seven of Hassen’s books, including pictorial tributes in the past year to legends of the freedom Struggle Ahmed Kathrada and Lalo ‘Isu’ Chiba. Sammy Naidoo said: “My involvement is to serve the community. Mandela emphasised education and this is what we are doing. We are trying to educate the nation. Working with Hassen for the past 10 years has been great and we want to continue the legacy of Mandela.” The book launch on Monday was attended by political activists, community leaders, ­religious leaders, intellectuals and community members including Ela Gandhi, deputy mayor Fawzia Peer and AV Mahomed. AB Moosa said his partnership went a “long way back to when my father was around”. “It so happened that my father passed on a month ago so to coincide with the programme, we wanted to do a video tribute to him and for me it was just about honouring my father and his legacy.” POST