Durban - A gang of robbers got more than they bargained for when they attempted to rob an off duty policeman on Thursday morning, who fought back and arrested them. One of the gang members was shot while a second was apprehended and handed over to police. An off-duty Bluff policeman had withdrawn cash from a local bank when they were accosted by the gang who drove a black VW Polo. Blue Security community and media liaison officer, Andreas Mathios, said the officer chased after the men and managed to apprehend one of the robbers and shot his accomplice. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "The man had gone to collect monies to pay his workers who were at his property earlier in the morning. While he was showing the workers who were doing renovations at his home around the place, he heard the sound of a firearm cocking and a suspect held him up and robbed him of the money,” Mathios said. The cash stolen during the robbery was recovered from inside the abandoned getaway vehicle. KZN Police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala said an off-duty officer was accosted at about 10am after withdrawing money at the bank. "An off-duty police officer went to the bank at the Bluff to withdraw money and proceeded to his home also in Bluff area where he parked his car on the driveway and walked into his house. Whilst he was inside his house, he noticed a black VW Polo with two occupants parking behind his car.  "One of the suspects walked into his house and at gunpoint demanded the money he had withdrawn. The suspect searched the victim and took an undisclosed amount of cash from his pocket. The suspect ran into the black VW Polo and drove off," said Gwala.  Gwala said the off-duty policeman got into his car and followed the suspects.  "A shoot-out ensued at the corner of Austerville Drive and Quality Street, Wentworth. The suspect’s vehicle lost control and collided with a red Polo. Two suspects aged 36 and 41 were placed under arrest," added Gwala.  She said the 41-year-old suspect was shot on the shoulder, while police recovered a 9mm pistol at the crime scene.  "A vehicle used in the commission of an offence was also seized by police. The recovered firearm will be subjected to ballistic testing. The suspects will appear in the Wentworth Magistrates Court next week on charges of house robbery, attempted murder as well as possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition," said Gwala.  DAILY NEWS