“I never left her to die. I was at her side the whole time,” said the 29-year-old man, of Eastbury, Phoenix. He said he believed she had taken her own life because her family were against their relationship and upset that she was pregnant with his child. The family of Kavida Govender, 36, was unsure if she was pushed or had fallen, after hearing that a motorist had seen the couple arguing as they were being driven along Solomon Mahlangu (Edwin Swales VC) Drive on July 15. “Minutes later the motorist saw her body flying out of the bakkie. She hit her head on the road and died due to the blunt force,” ­Govender’s father Roy told POST last week. He said the man then fled the scene. However, the fiancé told POST this week that he was Kavida’s common-law husband and had nothing to do with what transpired that fateful night. “This was the fourth time she tried to commit suicide because of the pressure she was receiving from her family. They did not approve of the relationship or the pregnancy,” he said, requesting anonymity. He said he was not allowed to attend her funeral. “I was unable to say my last goodbyes. The last memory I have of her is jumping out of the bakkie and dying in my arms,” he said. “These memories are so painful and they have left me traumatised. I cannot eat, sleep or do anything. She was so excited about the birth of our baby. She seemed happy. I still cannot understand why she would do something like this.” He said he met Govender, a single mother of three, in 2015 while visiting relatives in eMkhomazi (Umkomaas). “We developed a friendship and soon thereafter a relationship. She moved in with me and we lived in my parents’ home in Phoenix. In May, we found out she was pregnant with our first child and we recently moved into a rented home. We were living as common-law husband and wife,” said the man. The couple had allegedly planned on tying the knot on August 25. Instead, he will be attending her memorial service on the day. “We were going to get registered at my parents’ home.” The man, who is unemployed, said that on the night of the incident they were seated at the back of a friend’s bakkie. “We decided to go for a drive with my friend, who needed to drop off money at his boss’s home. My friend was driving and his wife and son were seated next to him. Kavida and I sat at the back of the open bakkie. I was seated against the glass window and she was on the arch at the side of the bakkie.” He said that when they arrived at their destination his friend’s employer wanted him to drop off another worker in Solomon Mahlangu Drive. “The worker sat with us and during this time, Kavida and I had an argument because she was sitting on the arch of the bakkie. I told her to sit next to me because it was cold and the ride was bumpy. She woke up and sat next to me.” After his friend had dropped off his work colleague, it had been windy and he had lowered his head, pulling the hoodie from his jacket over his face. “As the bakkie began to move again, I felt her get up and within seconds, before I could grab her, she jumped off the vehicle. My friend and his wife saw what happened and he stopped in the emergency lane.” He said they ran to help Govender. “She was bleeding and semi-conscious. Just then a security company stopped to assist and they told my friend the area was dangerous. He was concerned about his wife and child and got into the bakkie to take them home. "He also notified my parents about what had happened and reported the incident to the Phoenix police station.” The man said his friend returned to the scene with his parents but while he was holding Govender, waiting for paramedics, she died in his arms. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said the incident was being investigated. POST