Durban - For every couple on their wedding day, the first dance as Mr and Mrs is one of the most special moments of the day. It’s when they can be “alone” and either sing the words of their favourite love song to each other or hold each other close and take in the magnitude of the day. They take to the dance floor, surrounded by loved ones who clap and smile along. But for Durban couple, Cuan and Le-Tarnia Botha, they wanted to make sure their family and friends were left 'shook' by their extraordinary routine. In the couple’s first dance as husband and wife, which has since gone viral on social media, Botha and his blushing bride take to the dance floor with the introduction of John Legend’s You and I (Nobody in the World) playing in the background. The couple continue to sway to the US singer’s smash hit but cut in a few minutes and bham! Botha and Le’Tarnia stand side by side while Drake’s ever popular In My Feelings. What do they do next you ask? Well, they get their 'Keke' vibes on. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Speaking to the Daily News, the Bothas said they wanted to add some fun to their wedding. “We had seen the challenge being done so many times and we felt this would be something that would represent us well. We are a couple who love to dance,” he said. Botha explained that he and his wife used to dance professionally but now volunteer some of their time teaching children how to dance at their local church. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. “It took us 10 minutes to learn the routine and it came as a surprise to our guests. No one expected us to do it. Seeing and hearing their response was interesting. We knew they would be excited to see us but we were blown away by how much they loved and enjoyed it,” Botha said. Daily News