Reddy, who owns South Africa’s biggest power utility company, truly believed that it was his passion and humble beginnings that worked as a driving force to his four decades of success in business. Last week he celebrated 40 years with his company, the Edison Power Group, in an extravagant affair at the Durban ICC, complete with the KZN Philharmonic Orchestra, Clermont Choir and comedy giant Aaron McIlroy. Taking the podium, Reddy spoke fondly of how he started his business with next to nothing and how meeting his idol Neil Armstrong gave him the push he needed to keep his business game strong. He said he first started working for an international company that had just invested in South Africa but was fired when he tried to unite the black and white staff at a Christmas party. Reddy said it was then that he decided to open his own business “I thought I would easily get a job but the electrical industry was very small and I was forced to start my own business.” Reddy said he started off the business as Reddy’s Electrical with one employee, Sipho Ngcobo, and got his first job for R56000. “We worked night and day, finished the job and I went with my wife in a broken bakkie that I borrowed from my sister to collect the money. I had big hopes, I was so excited. "I parked outside Victoria Street and went upstairs to the office to collect the money only to be told the company had been liquidated. I was absolutely bankrupt.” He said he was devastated and began to borrow money. It was during that time he met Armstrong that changed his life. “I was the first African to meet Neil Armstrong, who told me: ‘If you can dream it, you can achieve it’. I took that advice very seriously and focused on making my business work.” He said he began to speak to everyone he owed money to and worked very hard. “I realised the name Reddy was a problem and eventually changed the name to Edison Power. In apartheid I went around as Mr Edison. We eventually became the best and people forgot about the colour of our skin.” He spoke of how he had to operate under false pretences because of the colour of his skin and laughed as he reminisced. “One of the first jobs we had was at King Edward VIII Hospital, that we put in a bid for. We had the lowest bid and people said we would never get this job.” But with help from business colleagues he was able to secure the job. Reddy later honoured some of his loyal and dedicated employees, and business partners. Over the past 40 years, the Edison Power Group has won a string of awards and was most recently honoured with the lifetime international award, for social cohesion, philanthropy and business success, at the House of Commons in London. Reddy is also a philanthropist and is involved in several South African charity initiatives. Tourism MEC, Sihle Zikalala, Finance MEC Belinda Scott and a representative from the mayor’s office later offered their congratulations to Reddy and his business, and hailed him for the outstanding work he was doing. POST