Danielle Pillay, 25, told POST that the Phoenix man, whom they have reported to the police, is pretending to be the child’s uncle to “scheme” people. He allegedly shows them newspaper clippings about their 10-month-old daughter, Zaidee, who was diagnosed with spina bifida at birth. At 38 weeks pregnant, Pillay underwent an emergency cesarean section, and a week later, her baby underwent her first surgery to close the gap in her spine. However, things took a turn for the worse. “During her recovery, she experienced more complications as she developed hydrocephalus (fluid build-up in the cavities within the brain). We took her home, but were advised to monitor her,” said Pillay. “Within a month, her head swelled from 32 to 43cm. “Last December, Zaidee underwent her second operation to have a permanent shunt inserted in her head to help drain the fluids. However, after a month, the shunt began to swell, and it needed to be changed, but we were told it could only be changed after six months. Her head continued to swell, and she contracted an infection,” said Pillay. In the “fake” affidavit, the man describes Zaidee’s condition, which includes her having a shunt (a narrow piece of tubing inserted into the brain to drain excess fluid) and explains that he is raising funds for her treatment and surgery. Pillay and her husband, Envir, 25, said although they have opened a case of fraud, the man had yet to be arrested. “It has been the toughest 10 months of our lives having to watch our little baby endure so much pain and suffering, but still remain bubbly, then only to find out someone is using her condition as a pawn in his game,” she said. “We found out about his scheme earlier this year after a family member informed us of what he was doing. "When we approached the police, they said we would need to collect statements from people that he had tricked, which we did, but to date, nothing had been done.” Pillay claims the man also uses his child to beg with the “fake” affidavit. “For months he has tormented us, and we are always receiving calls from people letting us know what he is doing, and that his child was even seen walking around asking for a donation. "But nothing is being done by the police. We feel this is unfair, and he needs to be exposed,” she says. Pillay says that every day they battle to try and make a better and brighter future for Zaidee and have been hosting cupcake drives to generate funds and raise awareness on the defect. “Zaidee has no feeling from her knees downward, and this has caused her feet to drop, which could lead to clubbed feet. We cannot afford medical aid, and we pay for her to get physiotherapy every week, instead of once a month in a public hospital. We were advised that with the right treatment from a young age, Zaidee could walk in the future. “However, we also found that she would need specialist shoes, which cost in the region of R2 000 to R3 000 each and would need to be changed as she grew, which we are trying to save to purchase for her.” POST