We are by now familiar with the origins of this celebration and about the historic march of 1956 when leaders of the Federation of South African Women, led by Lillian Ngoye, Helen Joseph, Rahima Moosa and Sophia Williams de Bruyn, delivered petitions to leaders of the apartheid government protesting against the oppressive pass laws that restricted people’s freedom of movement. It was indeed a turning point in the role of women in the struggle for freedom in our country. But surely our celebration and commemoration of women should extend way beyond mere symbolism? Surely, the struggle for gender equality and the empowerment of women should be something we strive for way beyond national Women’s Month? Surely, this should be an issue not restricted to the month of August, but one that is part of our daily lives as a society? We cannot be proud of ourselves as South Africans when we know that violence against women remains so endemic, many people are now simply numb to the horrifying statistics of domestic violence and sexual abuse in our homes. Open up your newspaper on any given day and you are greeted by so many stories of atrocious abuse of women - sometimes violent, sometimes psychological. And it all stems from a basic lack of respect by many men for the basic rights of women. According to former deputy president, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, who is now executive director of UN Women, the problem of violence against women extends far beyond South Africa. Statistics reveal that one in three women around the world suffers physical or sexual violence during their lifetime, and half of female murder victims are killed by partners or family members. The gender pay gap is another issue that must be top-of-mind in the workplace. How can we condone the fact that, in many cases, women are paid far less than men for performing the same tasks? When our new political dispensation was born in 1994, South Africans committed themselves to working towards a non-racial and non-sexist society. Just as the pursuit of equality among different race groups is important, so too is equality in terms of gender. If we wish to honour and celebrate women, we must do it every day of our lives. POST