The duo, Alesten Baron and Nolisindiso Kwaza, were arrested two weeks ago by Kraaifontein cops and inspectors from the Cape of Good Hope SPCA following the heinous crime. The dog is currently being treated at the SPCA after being rescued on 10 July. On Monday, inspector Siviwe Noko took the witness stand at the Kuils River Magistrates’ Court where the two are facing charges of animal cruelty. Noko told the court the men had allegedly burnt the dog with hot cooking oil, which scorched off the skin on its one side, and did not provide any medical treatment to the poor animal after the brutal attack. It is unclear whether the men are known to the dog. A third person, believed to have been part of the attack, is yet to be arrested. The matter was postponed to 28 September for both men to obtain legal representation and for the third person to be caught. Belinda Abraham, the Communications, Resource Development and Education Manager for the SPCA, says they are grateful for the police’s hard work in catching the men. Explaining the importance of having inspectors of the SPCA at court cases, she said: “This is to ensure that justice is served for an innocent dog, cruelly burnt with scalding hot cooking oil. “Furthermore the assailants left this animal to suffer by denying him treatment for his wounds following the brutal attack. “Noko charged the three men accused of this horrendous abuse with contravention of the Animals Protection Act No. 71 of 1962. “The third accused’s identity is known but attempts to trace him have not yet been successful. “Alesten Baron and Nolisindiso Kwaza, who were arrested over the previous weekend, were each granted R3000 bail.” She thanked the public for contacting the SPCA about animal abuse cases. “Thank you for helping us to treat innocent animal victims and keep them safely with us as they too await the court’s verdict, and understanding the importance of animal representation by the SPCA in courts of law.”  genevieve.serra@inl.co.za  Daily Voice