Durban -  South African sailor and photographer Lungi Mchunu is the first South African woman to attempt to sail to the North Pole. And even though inclement weather forced Mchunu to abandon her mission, she intends to ‘paint’ a picture of the impact of human behaviour on the planet, by all the images she captured during her journey. The expedition was cut short after terrific storms damaged the crew’s wooden boat and they had to be rescued by helicopter. Though disappointed about not reaching the North Pole, Mchunu remains steadfast in her commitment to use the information and photographs she captured using a camera sponsored by Canon, to raise awareness of climate change amongst the youth. The crew were 1200km away from reaching the pole which is approximately five days of sailing, when thestorm hit. She wants to customize the story for her African audience and is hoping to have her manuscript for a children’s book complete by October this year. Mchunu also plans on conducting talks on climate change at schools, companies and non-profit organisations when she returns to South Africa in September. “It's unfortunate that we didn't reach our destination but we achieved a lot. We reached a number of milestones and this is not the end but merely a lesson,” says Mchunu of herself and her multinational crew comprising of an Italian, Australian, Brit, Czech, German, Irishman and South African. “We may not have reached our goal this time. But it has not dampened my spirits at all. In fact, I'm more determined than ever before. I have learnt so much and I have had the privilege of walking on untouched land and breathing unpolluted air. So, I now know the difference and I will continue to learn and raise awareness so that future generations will have that privilege too.” Mchunu’s expedition started at Rostock in Germany in July this year. The plan was to sail from there to the North Pole and back again. Had she been successful, she would have been the first African women to sail to the North Pole. Time has now run out for Mchunu and her crew as the summer season is now over and the ice has started to form. DAILY NEWS