Durban - Matric final exams will begin in October and the director and co-founder of Step Up Education, Cindy Glass has prepared some top tips for learners. “There is no doubt that the upcoming trial and final exams can be a source of anxiety and stress for most. The task ahead can feel overwhelmingly challenging and the resulting fear-of-failure can and, too-often, does become counter-productive in the learning process,” she said. Below are some tips learners could follow: 1. Start TODAY! Get hold of a calendar. Identify your trial and final exam dates. Use the calendar to pla your study schedule for each day. You must tick off each completed task as you go-this will give you a wonderful sense of accomplishment. 2. Set your goals-for each subject. Ensure that your goals are realistic. Be creative in writing these goals on an A4 piece of card which you can stick on the wall in your study area. Take the time to remind yourself of what you wish to achieve, every day! This will keep you motivated. 3. Get hold of as many past exam papers as you can. Working through past papers will ensure that you are ready for the actual exam. Past exam papers are key to effective exam preparation. 4. Looking at the enormity of all that needs to be done for the exams can feel overwhelming. Use your calendar to break this big task into smaller, more manageable, bite-size pieces. Be consistent and hold yourself accountable for making sure that you cover the work needed. 5. Ensure that you have a designated space to study. A small desk, a comfortable chair, good lighting and the stationery that you will need must be in place before you begin. 6. The best way to study is to put pen-to-paper. You are seven times more likely to remember information if you write it down! Again, focus on past exam papers. Write down the answers and practice the areas you are unsure about. 7. Look after yourself This is a time to eat healthily, exercise, drink plenty of water and get enough sleep. 8. Avoid distractions Be self-disciplined and switch off your cellphone. Remember that you honor yourself by being motivated and disciplined. POST