Durban -  Twelve women from around the world are expected to travel 9 000km across four countries to raise awareness about the human-wildlife conflict. Headed by Carla Geyser, a KwaZulu-Natal-based eco-warrior, the expedition is titled The Journeys with Purpose: Rise of the Matriarch. The all women 50-day conservation adventure from South Africa into Southern Africa will see woman travel across South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana and Namibia. They are expected to meet women conservation heroes who are involved in extraordinary projects to help conserve Africa’s nature and wildlife. Some of the women include American wildlife biologist and conservation scientist, Jennifer Palmer,  Durban-born Bronwyn Laing, American nurse and travel blogger, Emily Scott, East Coast Radio personality, Erin Dickson and Midlands resident, Lungile Dimba, an Education Administrator at WESSA. Dimba, an Education Administrator at WESSA (Wildlife and Environment Society of South Africa) will spend 14 days on expedition alongside Geyser. The 24-year-old believes the mission is bigger than any of the crew members. “Morally, everything on earth deserves love and deserves to be taken care of. This includes all the animals and the environment. There are few people who care about nature and I am so grateful for the opportunity to be part of the few who educate the importance of valuing our environment. I believe environmental work is the cleanest career path on Earth.” While Geyser is putting the finishing touches to expedition she says it’s not too late for corporates or benevolent individuals to get involved. “Here in Africa, we are losing on average two game rangers a week, three rhinos a day, and one elephant every 15 minutes. That’s a pretty sobering thought. Our conservationists and brave anti-poaching units put their lives on the line and grapple this issue on a daily basis as they seek to educate the youth about conservation and in the process empower communities with skills needed to reduce human-wildlife conflict. We can’t simply sit back and do nothing. We owe it to future generations to do as much as we possibly can to protect our precious planet. If we each do a little, we can accomplish a great deal. Every little bit counts. Every cent matters.” The expedition will see crew members engage with local communities especially children on the human-wildlife issue and distribute 30 000 educational booklets, connect with anti-poaching groups, visit conservation groups and schools, and meet with incredible women, “she-roes” who are doing remarkable things at a grassroots level to assist in conservation efforts. Funds raised during the expedition will benefit four causes: Elephants Alive (South Africa), Rare and Endangered Species Trust (Namibia), Eco-Exist Project (Botswana) and the Soft Foot Alliance Trust (Zimbabwe). The expedition starts from Johanessburg on September 16 and returns to South Africa on October 28. Daily News