Durban - Emergency medical services have until the end of November to submit applications for a licence to operate in the province or face jail time if operating illegally. The KwaZulu Natal Department of Health implemented this as part of regulating the industry. The licence will permit the operator to work only within a specific health district, and will be valid for a year and reviewed annually. Those whose licence applications are deemed unsuccessful, following the assessment, will be given reasons for this, and asked to rectify their shortcomings and resubmit their applications. These Emergency Medical Services Regulations, 2017 affect all emergency care services operations, including the KZN Department of Health’s own emergency care services, which must also be assessed before being granted a license. The primary aim of these regulations is to improve the quality of patient care and rid the sector of fly-by-night operators, whose conduct has, at times, placed patient’s lives at risk, the Department said this week. In the current unregulated environment in the province, there has been nothing to ensure that both public and private emergency care services, are manned by registered and adequately trained staff, with proper and adequate equipment. These regulations seek to address this and also ensure consistency and standardisation of operations in the sector, so that the service is the same, anywhere, everywhere and at any time – regardless of the operator involved. The licence application process will be overseen by an independent advisory committee which will make recommendations to the Head of the Department. This committee is composed of an expert in emergency medicine, a representative of South African Local Government Association (SALGA), one representative each from the public and private emergency care services, and a representative of health care users. The Department is in the process of establishing an independent licensing and inspectorate unit which will administer the licensing and inspection processes, and act as a Secretariat to the advisory committee. Any operator who continues to provide emergency care services without a licence shall be guilty of an offence and may be liable, upon conviction, to a fine of up to R500 000 or a jail term of up to five years, or both. KZN Health MEC Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo said: “We look forward to having an emergency care sector in the province of KwaZulu-Natal that is well-regulated and subscribes to the highest standards of patient care.” POST