Durban - Lectures were suspended at the University of KwaZulu-Natal's Westville campus on Monday after protests broke out just after 10am. In a statement released to the media, UKZN said, the academic programme, including all tests, was suspended on the Westville campus for Monday only. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. "The suspension will allow university management to engage with student leadership and find amicable solutions," said UKZN spokesperson, Normah Zondo. Police have confirmed that 17 students were arrested and charged for public violence. Police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said students threw stones at police and police vehicles were damaged during the protest. "A total of 17 students were arrested for public violence. They will appear in court soon," she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. While the motive for the protest is yet to be officially confirmed, it is alleged that students were protesting over a range of issues including safety. Campus security and police responded to the scene. Angry students threw rocks at police. Officers had to use stun grenades to disperse the crowd. Last week Wednesday, lectures were also suspended following violent clashes between police and students. According to Zondo, a group of students began protesting and disrupted lectures. They damaged property and vehicles belonging to the university. A staff member was injured when a  change room and toilet were set alight. The protest was due to issues around amenities at some of the residences, shuttle service timetables and National Student Financial Aid Scheme administration. Daily News