Brian Munsamy Pillay, 46, shot Jonathan Eddie Pather in his chest during an altercation at Pather’s home in April last year. Pillay’s brother Nelson, 43, was found guilty of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, and sentenced to a fine of R3000 (or three months’ imprisonment). Pather’s family, who sat in the Durban Magistrate’s Court yesterday, spoke of him with tears in their eyes, fondly recalling the moments and conversations shared. “He was my baby, I miss him so much. He would come to my house every day and would never leave without eating,” said his mother Kogie. “He loved it when I cooked fresh chicken curry, and always asked me to make it. “Eddie was the friendliest person. He always has a smile on his face. He was a vibrant, joyful man everyone knew and loved. This man took away his smile,” she cried. The court heard that Pillay had been assisting in a personal matter between Pather and his wife. Pather had then accused Pillay of having an ­affair, which he denied. On the day of the murder, Pather had met Nelson and spoke to him concerning the rumours. Pather apparently asked to meet Pillay to sort out the issue “man to man”. Nelson arrived at Pather’s home with his brother and an argument ensued resulting in a physical altercation. Pillay then phoned his brothers (Nathaniel and Edwin), who arrived at the scene. Evidence showed that a “knobkierie” (pick-axe handle) was used in the fight. Pather’s wife, Shamona Bridglall, testified she pulled him away from the argument. At some point Pillay pulled out a firearm and Pather shouted out: “Shoot if you have the guts to shoot.” Pather was subsequently shot in the chest, dying in hospital two days later. Pillay testified he had fired a warning shot. He also claimed he acted in self-defence. Magistrate Anand Maharaj rejected Pillay’s evidence, finding he had too many versions. Pillay’s counsel, advocate Jay Naidoo, who had asked for 10 months imprisonment, said his client was remorseful for his actions, had sought the help of a spiritual mentor and had become a vegetarian. Describing it as a “senseless” murder, Maharaj said he was not convinced that Pillay was remorseful. Earlier, Naidoo requested a short adjournment for Pillay to apologise to the deceased’s family. This was granted but Pather’s family did not accept the apology - nor the sum of R25000 that was offered as compensation for Pather’s minor child. “It’s a little too late,” Pather’s mum cried. “He had more than a year to apologise but wants to do it now, to save himself. We cannot accept it, and as far as the money is concerned, no amount of money will bring my son back.” Bridglall told POST she was overwhelmed by the verdict, but had hoped for a stronger sentence. “There are no words to describe how I feel. This was my prayer, for him to serve a sentence. He (Pather) told me not to leave this, and they have to pay for what they did.” She said her 7-year-old son constantly breaks down in tears and suffered from night terrors, saying he wished his dad was there with them. “He knows what’s happening, he keeps telling me, ‘That man took daddy from us’. We know this will not bring him back, but they need to pay.” Pillay’s leave to appeal his conviction and sentence was refused. POST