Durban - eThekwini Municipality has major plans to promote the city’s rich heritage and culture in the build up to Heritage Month which kicks off from September 1. This includes the setting up of a heritage centre in Verulam, north of the city. At a full council setting on Thursday, the city’s acting head of communications, Mandla Nsele, said three separate reports were tabled, which will go along way to promote the region’s heritage. He said the first report dealt with the acquisition of the Professor Shabalala House in Clermont through a lease agreement. “The tabled report states that in line with Plan 6 of the Integrated Development Plan (IDP) of eThekwini Municipality and as per the strategic objective of the municipality, there is a need to successfully transform the heritage landscape of the city,” he said. Nsele explained that the tabling of the report grants authority for the Parks, Recreation and Culture Unit in liaison with the Real Estate Unit to commence negotiations and consultations with Professor Shabalala, the founder of Ladysmith Black Mambazo, and all other stakeholders. “This is being done with the view of acquiring his house in Clermont through a lease agreement to enable its use as a museum. The tabled report states that this will subsequently form part of the existing Liberation Heritage Route project,” he said. Nsele said the tabled report states that the Business Unit will be accountable for providing detailed financial implications to the Community Services Committee once the negotiation process is finalised. This information will be included in a report which will be submitted to the committee requiting final project authority. He said the second tabled report granted authority to the Parks, Recreation and Culture Unit to work together with the Real Estate Unit to consult with the Mxenge family and other relevant stakeholders with the view of acquiring the Mxenge House facility through a lease agreement for it to be used a museum. This project will also form part of the Liberation Heritage Route. “The tabled report states that the Business Unit will be accountable for providing financial implications once the process has been finalised,” he said. According to Nsele, the third report, also tabled outlined the transfer of the new Verulam Heritage Centre from the Economic Development and Investment Promotion Unit to the Parks, Recreation and Culture Unit. “The report also sought to appraise Council of the need to allocate necessary financial resources for the operational purposes of the facility as well as to have the necessary human personnel in line with Plan 6 of the IDP,” he said. Nsele said the report notes that the city committed to building a new heritage centre or museum in Verulam, in the north of Durban, as one of its strategic infrastructure development projects to stimulate growth in the greater Verulam area in particular and the city in general. “The report goes on to state that the Verulam Heritage Centre will serve a strategic purpose in preservation of liberation heritage route history and the narrative of activists in the north of Durban,” he said. Make sure to keep posted to the Daily News site and social media platforms as we have a host of special features lined up for Heritage month. Daily News