Durban - A unit, dedicated to the diagnosis and treatment of rare blood conditions has opened at the Netcare uMhlanga Hospital. The new state-of-the-art unit will bring hope to patients suffering with blood disorders. Commenting on the opening, Netcare Group executive director, Dr Richard Friedland, said the development of the unit is aligned to international trends for the establishment of dedicated facilities to treat the full range of haematology conditions. “These patients require not only highly specialised care and individual management by a multidisciplinary team of experts, but a purpose-developed unit such as this to ensure the best possible treatment outcomes,” he said. Friedland added that the haematology unit at Netcare uMhlanga Hospital incorporates a total of 26 beds, including six special isolation rooms for the protection of vulnerable patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation who require the highest levels of infection control. It also incorporates sophisticated technologies to support the multidisciplinary team which include some of the country’s foremost haematologists,” Friedland said. He added that the result is a world-class dedicated facility which represents an important development for private haematology medicine in KwaZulu-Natal, and will assist in meeting the growing demand to serve people in the province. Friedland praised the efforts of the specialist haematology practice of Dr Dhaya Moodley, Dr Natasha Sewpersad and Dr Rohaan Badree, who enthusiastically supported the development of the unit throughout. Moodley, first established a clinical haematology practice at Netcare Parklands Hospital in Durban in 2004. According to Marc van Heerden, general manager of Netcare uMhlanga Hospital, the unit has been years in planning and development. “No stone was left unturned in ensuring that the unit met all the requirements necessary for providing a world class haematology service. The six isolation rooms are equipped with laminar flow with Hepa filters to prevent airborne contaminants from entering the rooms. As bone marrow transplantation patients need to be isolated within a sterile environment and from other people for a period of time, each of the isolation rooms has been equipped with an entertainment system and data connections to enable easy access to the internet and communications systems. The rooms also incorporate digital call systems for nursing staff,” he said. Special anti-bacterial paint has been applied to the walls and ceilings of the unit and all infrastructure is linked to the main facilities management system to ensure that air flow, air-conditioning and filtration equipment is monitored closely. Renal dialysis points have been incorporated in each room so that renal dialysis can also be provided. Daily News