DURBAN - A former Mr India South Africa model is at the centre of a social media storm after he used molestation as an analogy to describe how he was looking at a woman on an Instagram picture. The model Tevin Naidu, who is also an intern doctor with the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health and TV presenter, posted a picture of a wedding shoot featuring himself and a local model on his Instagram page which he captioned: “Find yourself someone who looks at you the way I look at her (Like a molester who found his next victim)," he wrote. Screenshots of Naidu's comments enraged women on social media. One Facebook user, Trianne Amarchund, posted the message on her profile and it was widely shared on Facebook, leading to Naidu locking all his social media profiles. “Sies! In light of women's month? What an utter disgrace and complete embarrassment for all the brands represented by this person.” Approached for comment, Naidu, who was also a contestant on reality TV show Survivor South Africa, said he was “busy” and could not comment at the moment. He has since changed his initial caption.   The Department of Health in KwaZulu-Natal said the matter was being dealt with internally by management of the King Edward VIII Hospital in Durban, where Naidu is an intern doctor. Department spokesperson Ncumisa Mafunda said: “The Department wishes to condemn in the strongest terms a social media post attributed to one of its intern doctors. This matter is being dealt with internally. The department urges all its employees to familiarise themselves with social media guidelines for personal use on social media, as set out by the Government Communications and Information Systems". Mafunda said all government employees should always think before they post, and should use their common sense. “Government employees should remember that even if they act or speak in a personal capacity, their position as government employees may be known to anyone in the potential audience and may be misunderstood or misrepresented as an official position,” said Mafunda. nabeelah.shaikh@inl.co.za 