Durban - Sashni Daniel, 27, the sales consultant hospitalised after a horror brick attack, is off life support after emerging from a coma. The KwaDukuza (Stanger) woman suffered critical injuries after being struck across the head with a brick during a violent service delivery protest last month. She had been a passenger in a car that came under attack as she and the driver - her boyfriend’s nephew - were travelling from oThongathi (Tongaat) on the R102 near Shaka’s Head. Residents of a nearby township were angry as they had been without electricity for 11 hours after the KwaDukuza Municipality’s electricians had allegedly been stopped from working overtime. About 10 vehicles were stoned. Daniel sustained a fractured skull, three blood clots in her brain and internal swelling. A week after surgery, her father Kovlan Daniel told POST she was on the road to recovery. Trying to contain his joy, Kovlan said the family were thankful she was no longer on the ventilator and out of ICU. “We know it is a long road to recovery, but we are grateful and thank God for the strength he has given her to come out of the coma. "She can’t recall what has happened and is only able to muster a few words, but we do not want to push her, we will let her talk at her own pace. But she is a fighter and will pull through." He said his daughter would have to go for CT scans and further tests in the future. “She will remain in the high care unit for further observation.” Family, friends and community members gathered at the Stanger Siva Sungum Hall on Friday night for an interfaith prayer held for Sashni. “Our family is grateful for all those who came together from all different faiths to pray for her recovery. "However, we still feel someone needs to be held accountable for what has happened. We are still waiting for feedback from the KwaDukuza mayoral office.” The municipality’s communications officer, Sphe Ngobese, said they had noted the ongoing media reports relating to the incident. “It is unfortunate that we have received reports and point of view of this matter, particularly from the media space. "However, mayor Njabulo Ricardo Mthembu has been made aware of the matter and wishes to engage with those who have been affected. “He has asked the office of the municipal manager to meet with the family as part of an internal preliminary investigation. "Due to the sensitivity of the matter, we wish to reserve our comments and commit to making official pronouncements, once a full report is compiled and tabled to (the mayor).” POST