In that particular study, in which 50 countries were surveyed for reading ability among schoolchildren, South Africa in fact finished last. What was even more alarming was the finding that eight out of 10 South Africans pupils in Grade 4 could not read for meaning. The reading crisis obviously differs from school to school and community to community, and is most severe in areas where schools are inadequately staffed and poorly resourced, and there are high levels of poverty and unemployment. It is nevertheless an issue that should concern all South Africans as reading is central to living - it educates, informs, entertains and equips a person to lead a more dignified, wholesome and purposeful life. And it all starts at home. Studies have shown that in many countries, parents and children read recreationally far more extensively than South Africans do. That is why it is crucial that parents inculcate the reading habit from an early age. In a feature in POST last week, we focused on the South African Library Week between March 19 to 25 and highlighted the positive results being achieved by schools that promote a culture of reading through their libraries and reading events and programmes. Early childhood education programmes also play an invaluable role in preparing children from a young age so that the formal education system that follows can concentrate on developing them to become responsible adults. Just as important is the role of teachers and the need to place emphasis on reading comprehension and making sense of the written word. On a national level, we need to see a commitment by the government and education authorities to promote reading in the normal curriculum and providing library facilities at all schools. As we stand, 62% of primary schools in South Africa do not have libraries. To bring all these efforts together will require a comprehensive plan involving collaboration by all sectors of the population. This effort will call for inspired  and committed leadership by a high-profile and credible figure to champion the cause. And who better for the job than the newly appointed Minister of Higher Education Naledi Pandor, who has had a long and fulfilling career in public life and comes with a wealth of valuable experience in education. Let’s join hands in promoting a reading culture. POST