Durban - In an effort to position Durban as an attractive and most liveable city, eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede hosted a sod turning ceremony for a multi-million rand beachfront promenade extension development. The R300 million Beachfront promenade extension is a catalyst to the R35 billion Point Waterfront development to be undertaken in three phases over 5 to 10 years. Tozi Mthethwa, Ethekwini spokesperson, said the sod turning ceremony signaled the official commencement of the Beachfront promenade extension which is expected to be complete in June 2019. "This promenade extension will unlock phase one of the Point Waterfront that will include hotel, shopping centre, offices and residential." She said the entire Point Waterfront project is expected to create 11 000 jobs during the construction phase per annum and provide an estimated 6,750 permanent jobs after completion. Mayor Gumede added: “It is encouraging to note the growing interest from the business sector to work with government in major strategic investments.” Also, upon completion, rates revenue to be generated for eThekwini will amount to over R200 million per annum. “The Point Waterfront development must be seen in the context of a city-wide development process, indicating that Durban is on the brink of change,” said Mayor Gumede. She further mentioned that the overall national public revenues that may be derived from the revised development through the various tax mechanisms could amount to an additional R1.7 billion. City Manager, Sipho Nzuza said when he started his tenure in eThekwini, he vowed to fix the development bottlenecks in order to attract foreign investment as they have proven to be the key driver for jobs and growth. Soban Bavarah, an international investor from Malaysia, who is behind the Point Waterfront development thanked the Municipality for its commitment to ensure this development takes-off and continues to grow. “The Beachfront promenade extension will not only support the Point Waterfront development but will also benefit beach goers and general public,” he said. POST