Durban - Stepping into an airplane for the first time after a “straightforward” operation resulted in his brain being starved of oxygen, a Durban pilot’s eyes glistened with excitement as he relived the days of the life he once knew. Last year, Kershan Naidoo, 36, a former pilot of Sahel Aviation, laid in ICU unresponsive, with the chances of flying again, slim to none. But donning his pilot's uniform, Naidoo arrived early at Virginia Airport on Tuesday morning and was able to  take to the skies again thanks to executive private charter company, Aviation One. Read: Durban pilot could be grounded for life Receiving help from his dad, Ganes and sister Neloshini, Naidoo slowly climbed into the light aircraft and travelled across the North Coast for 15 minutes. The plane was flown by fellow pilots and friends, Zakariya Patel and Marc Courtiade. Neloshini said it was heart-warming to see her brother look like his old self again. “Kershan is a fighter, he has always been and when he got into that plane his face just lit up. He looked at every detail of the plane and pointed to the control panel as he reminisced on the days of his past. "He was Kershan the pilot. We haven’t seen him like this since the last time he flew.” Naidoo’s mom, Saro, 66, stood on the sidelines and cried as she watched her son. “He was so excited about this flight. He could hardly contain himself.” She said she was overcome with emotion when she saw her child back in uniform. Kelly van der Merwe of Aviation One said: “Aviation is all about passion and if you were or are still in the industry you always look to the sky. So for us as Aviation One we are the blessed ones that can assist a fellow aviator, a true gentleman who everyone wanted to fly with. "He is not just a fellow colleague but our friend. We are privileged to keep his dream alive and remind him to look towards the sky.” Zakariya Patel, who captained the flight, said it was an honour and a privilege to have been able to share the flight with Naidoo. Patel was one of Naidoo’s past students. In December 2016, Naidoo broke his arm while on a rest break at a French military base in Chad in Central Africa. He returned to Durban shortly thereafter to undergo a routine operation to fix his broken arm and was admitted at a private hospital. But before the operation even commenced his brain was deprived of oxygen and he ended up in ICU on life support for months. POST