Durban - Six lucky POST readers will soon be packing their bags and making their way to college after receiving bursaries courtesy of the Management College Of Southern Africa (MANCOSA) and Berea Technical College. All the students were unable to further their studies due to the tough financial times but now are feeling enlivened. They say they feel motivated to take on the world. Said Phoenix teen Ubhaidha Mahomed, who will study at leading business school MANCOSA: “I wanted to study human resource management at this college and now my dream has come true. “My mother (Fozia) always told me to further my education, but due to financial constraints, it was difficult. Her dream for me has also materialised,” said the 18-year-old. Daniel Naicker of Verulam described the opportunity to study mechanical engineering with a trade in motor mechanics at Berea Technical College as “heaven sent”. “My dad is a mechanic by trade, and I grew up watching him work. He is my inspiration and taught me everything he knows about cars. I want to be a great mechanic like him. “Unfortunately, when I matriculated, I could not afford to study. Being the second eldest of four children, I had to seek employment, and my savings went towards our household expenses. Being awarded a bursary to better provide for my family is amazing.” Naicker, 22, is the first in his family to further his studies. Prenolla Dorasamy of Merebank could not hold back her tears when she learnt she had been awarded a bursary to study business studies at the same college. The 18-year-old envisioned becoming a successful businesswoman. “My mother, Cathy, saw the bursary application and pestered me to apply. I’m lucky I did. Not only do I want to become a successful businesswoman, but I want to later help others who cannot afford their tertiary fees,” she said. “Education is the key to success.” In her motivational letter, Prenolla wrote: “Although I have a dream of studying, I also thought of letting it go because of my family’s financial situation. This bursary would help me secure my future, and I can then help my family, so they do not have to worry about where the next meal would come from.” Kealan Taylor, 19, of Mariannridge, who was raised by his mother, aspired to become an electrical engineer, but his dream was placed on the back burner due to a lack of funds. “My mother, Gladness, enrolled me at Berea Technical College earlier this year with the hope that I would secure funding. However, that did not materialise, so I applied for the bursary. I had not heard anything, and I was contemplating withdrawing my application, but the POST bursary fund came through for me.” He added: “These days it is easy to be encouraged by bad outside influences, but I always knew I wanted to make something of myself, especially for my mom. I am glad I have the opportunity now.” Taylor, who will be studying electrical engineering, loves being a handyman. Wyebank resident Letasha Naidoo, 18, who will study chemical engineering, said her dad Lindsay, a single parent, motivated her to further her studies. “He inspires me to be the best I can, and I want him to be proud of me.” Mthokozisi Mbhele, 21, of Newlands West, felt relieved when he was awarded a bursary to study civil engineering at Berea Technical College. “I am an orphan and never had money to study. My friend, who attends the same college, saw the advert and encouraged me to apply. “I now have my big break and am going to make the most of it.” Mbhele said that while growing up, he felt disheartened as he watched his friends attend tertiary institutions. “I used to get upset, but I have been given this blessing. All things are possible.” POST