Durban - Comedian Natashia Portrag, better known as "Tash the langada queen", is officially off the dating scene. The 32-year-old social media sensation married beau Deveshen Munian, 38, whom she refers to as "huncle" in online videos, at the Kharwastan Temple Hall in Chatsworth on Saturday. Parts of the traditional Hindu wedding were streamed live on Facebook. Guests included eThekwini deputy mayor Fawzia Peer, who also congratulated the newly wedded couple on Facebook. “Your wedding was one of its kind. Glamorous Tash. All bling and beautiful and presented a two second dance for the audience. So unusual. Loved the style. Thank you for inviting me.” Thousands of users also offered congratulatory messages to the couple, who met in 2015 via mutual friends. Portrag wore a traditional red and gold sari and Munian a matching coloured kurtha. About 500 guests, including fellow comedians and newspaper, radio and television personalities, attended and were treated to vegetable breyani, dhall, soji and cupcakes. Portrag told POST the ceremony and reception was everything she had dreamed of. “Our wedding, which also happened to be my birthday, was perfect.” Describing her husband as her best friend, Portrag said they had not lived up to norms by tying the knot at a young age. “We waited until we were older and don’t feel any different to younger couples.” She added she was excited to be a wife. “While growing up I always saw myself being that typical old school wife that cooks and goes out of her way for her husband. I am so excited because I can do all of these things for Deveshen. “Although our wedding was high profile, it was also sad for us as both Deveshen’s parents aren’t around and I will never hold the status of being someone’s daughter-in-law but his family have been so welcoming and accommodating that we are constantly being showered with love.” After the wedding, the couple headed for Cuba Lounge at the Moses Mabhida Stadium to share their joy with fans. “The Bash with Tash brand is huge and it is only because of the fans. I wanted to share my happiness with them and invite them into our world.” The couple plan on honeymooning in Thailand after her show in Australia next week. POST