Durban - For the Ramlalls, age was just a number, and falling in love was one of the best things that had happened to them. Prem was 16 years old and had been working as a bus conductor when 13-year-old Asothie boarded. “I lived in Merebank and travelled by bus to Merebank High School. Prem, who was my brother’s best friend, was the conductor,” said Asothie, of the Bluff, who is now 67. “Although we knew of each other, we never spoke on the bus.” Prem, now 71, added: “She was shy and all we did was steal glances of each other. A few weeks had passed and I decided to write a letter to her, to share my feelings with her. "From the first time I saw her, I knew she would be my wife, but I also knew I had to be cautious. Her brother was my best friend and her dad was strict. I couldn’t do things out of haste.” Despite reading the letter, both teenagers never built up the courage to start a conversation. “I read his letter and the subsequent letters, but immediately tore them up. I was scared of getting caught,” admitted Asothie. They gradually began chatting, but a spanner was thrown in the works when she left school a year later. The only chance they would get of seeing one another was when Prem visited her brother Vasa (who has since passed away). Three years later, 17-year-old Asothie was left with no choice but to admit to her family that she fancied Prem. She explained: “One day my mother told me that a boy was coming to our home to see me, as he was interested in me. I refused. I explained that I had been chatting with Prem and that we fancied one another. “At first she was taken aback but she always liked him. He used to be in and out of our home and she knew the type of person he was, so she had no objections. “My father, on the other hand, was initially upset because we were Tamil-speaking while Prem was Hindi-speaking, and back then it was not common for the two to marry. "He eventually accepted that we had strong feelings for each other and requested Prem and his family to visit our home.” “Luckily Vasa was not upset when he found out,” laughed Prem. “I chatted with Asothie’s dad and he said he needed a few days to think about our relationship. A month later, he agreed we should settle down.” They married eight months later, on January 21, 1968, at the Shree Parasakthi Temple in Merebank. About 400 guests attended. They snacked on chilli bites and soji and washed it down with juice and tea. Asothie wore a mink sari and Prem opted for a beige suit. She moved in with Prem’s family at their home in Chatsworth and they had three children - Nisha, Naresh and Seemita. By this time, Prem had secured a job, checking the cargo at the Durban harbour, until his retirement at age 58. These days 71-year-old Prem enjoys walking on the beach, while Asothie prefers crossword puzzles. They also enjoy going out for breakfast on the Bluff and watching Bollywood movies. The couple, who have holidayed in Cape Town, Mauritius and India, celebrated their 50th anniversary on January 21 with their children, four grandchildren and 100 guests at the Bluff Golf Course. When asked about the secret to a long-lasting relationship, Prem said: “Don’t give up on the one you love. “When I saw Asothie, I knew I wanted to make her my wife. "When I spoke to her father, I told him how I felt about her and my determination, and the truth in my voice won him over. "We live happily. If there is a problem, we fix it. We don’t go to bed upset. She is my best friend and I cannot hurt my best friend.” Asothie added: “I can’t say marriage is a bed of roses. It has its ups and downs. "Yes we do squabble, and I think those small squabbles are good for a relationship as it not only shows your partner you care but it also strengthens your relationship. "We have been honest and true to one another since day one, and that is what kept our spark alive.” POST