Durban - When Desigan Padayachee received a call from RK Khan Hospital telling him his mother had died, his world came crashing down. Breaking the news to his seven siblings and making the funeral arrangements was a painful experience. So when he arrived at the Chatsworth hospital to get the death certificate, he was not prepared for what he was about to see: his mother, alive and well. While Padayachee was thrilled to still have his beloved mother, he was furious at the apparent hospital mix-up. The nurses denied anyone had called him, suggesting that perhaps someone had played a cruel prank on him. His mother, Muthiyaluamma Padayachee, 75, of Chatsworth, had been taken to hospital by her daughter last Monday night, complaining of severe abdominal pain. Desigan Padayachee said: “I finished work at 10pm and met my sister at the hospital. My mother was admitted at 1.30am. During the day, doctors ran tests and found she might have contracted an infection of her bladder, lungs and kidneys. “She was treated for the infection and by Wednesday her condition was improving,” he said. The 34-year-old plant operator said that about 10.22pm, he had received two calls from a private number which he did not answer. “I normally don’t answer private number calls, but when I got a third I realised it could be important and answered. "The woman calling said she was Sister Joseph from RK Khan Hospital. She told me my mother passed away an hour ago. “Words cannot explain how I felt at that moment. I was trying to figure out what could have gone wrong because my mother looked so well when I saw her that day. “The hardest thing was to break the news to my siblings. I spoke to the first two and when I got to a third I could not even speak. My wife had to take over.” The father of two said some of his siblings came to his home and they planned to go to the hospital. “A relative suggested we first go to undertakers. We arrived at the Mariannhill Funeral Parlour just after 11pm and made the necessary arrangements. The undertaker told us to get a death notification and cremation form from the hospital.” They arrived at the hospital just after midnight. “We met the nurse in charge and explained to her that we got a call from Sister Joseph informing us that my mom had passed away. “She was unhelpful and arrogant and claimed there was no nurse by that name at the hospital. "The matron, who was equally unhelpful, told us no one was called and maybe someone had playing a prank on us. I was horrified by the remarks and demanded to see my mother.” Padayachee said the nurses had refused to allow them in the ward or to confirm if his mother was alive or dead. “While they were talking to us, my sister ran into the ward. My mother was lying on the bed alive and well. We were so relieved, but also angry and frustrated at the attitude of the nurses. “The Department of Health needs to teach them how to be patient and sympathetic with families. We want to know from the hospital who made that call as we believe the nurses on duty were protecting someone who made a mistake,” he said. “If it was a mistake they should come clean and not claim it was a prank.” His mother was still being treated, but was expected to be discharged this week. The hospital had not provided an explanation by the time of publication. POST