Durban - A “sudden about-turn” by the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) in implementing a regulation was causing great distress, says the DA’s KwaZulu-Natal spokesperson on health, MPL Dr Imran Keeka. The rule says that returning doctors who studied medicine overseas must complete an internship in the country in which they studied, before they may sit for their HPCSA board exams. “While the DA acknowledges that the council is obliged to implement what is lawful, the move has left graduates and their families with a massive expenditure bill and a huge investment in terms of time before qualifying. “The question is why was this information not provided to the applicants in the first instance? Surely these regulations were known to the professional board at the time? Why should these young doctors be the victims of people who don’t know what they are doing? It is critical that there is some form of accountability from the council, while the heads of those who are doing shoddy work must roll.” Keeka said that, based on the fact that many doctors had already written the board examinations without being subject to the same requirements, the issue was one that possibly required testing in a court. “The professional board and council must not only admit their wrongdoing, they must also take responsibility to ensure swift, corrective measures are put in place. Whether this can be achieved by a deviation from the regulations for the current batch of doctors must be given serious consideration.” Keeka added that the HPCSA needed to ensure consistency when it came to the implementation of regulations. “It would also do well to remember that, like all statutory councils, it exists to protect the public. The council must not become an obstacle to seeing that the country has more doctors.” KZN Department of Health spokesperson Desmond Motha said they allocate internships after being given the number of students from medical universities in South Africa. “We do not know how many students are studying overseas so how would it be possible for us to allocate them an internship? We also do not know the type of training they have received and those countries should allow them to do their internship in their hospitals.” Motha added that those who choose to study abroad needed to complete their internship there and come back as qualified doctors. “They must come back and write their HPSCA board exams before seeking employment.” However, HPCSA spokesperson Priscilla Sekhonyana said returning medical students who studied abroad are able to do their internship in South Africa as long as they complied with certain requirements. “According to the regulations, a foreign-qualified applicant is expected to meet all the requirements of Section 4 of the regulations. “In the case of an application for registration in a profession for which internship training is a requirement, a certificate of completed training as an intern, or of similar training or experience obtained elsewhere, and the programme for such training (is required),” said Sekhonyana. POST