Durban - For 12 days, Keshnee Rampartab sat at the front window of her Merebank home, waiting for her beloved husband of six years to walk through the front gate. At every sound or the sight of a vehicle passing by, she would sit up looking intently, praying to see his face. Her hopes were dashed at the weekend when the badly decomposed body of Pregasen Clive Rampartab was found in bushes near a school. The body of the 32-year-old man had lain unseen just three roads away from his Jhelum Road home. The unemployed welder had gone missing on March 14. According to his devastated mother Daisy, he was last seen near a known drug den nearby. “Yes, my son was a drug addict. Smoking was his habit but we were his life,” she said. “Although he was a smoker he never stole from the house or did any nonsense here. He still looked after us and took care of the house before supporting his habit.” Before losing his job, he bought new beds for his family, new cupboards, and even a PlayStation gaming console for his son, said Pregasen’s stepfather, Amith Shanker. “He did his best to give us the best and now he isn’t here to enjoy it all with us.” Pregasen’s body was found on Sunday behind Ganges Secondary School, near the overhead bridge on Himalaya Drive. “We were about to go out and search in Isipingo for him. During the 12 hours of hell we heard a lot of rumours, such as he had either gone to Isipingo or fishing, and we followed every lead,” said Daisy. “Before we could leave, two men from the road came home to say they were getting a terrible smell near the school by the overhead bridge. In my heart, I knew it was him. But I kept a brave face for my daughter-in-law and the rest of my family.” Leaving the women at home, Shanker, Pregasen’s younger brother Kevin, and a few other men made their way to Himalaya Road. “Just as we arrived, so did the police. We got a terrible smell and immediately knew something was wrong. We knew there was something rotting there but I prayed to God it wasn’t my son. "We had to work quickly to remove the pre-cast wall because the body was in between the wall and a fence behind the school. Once we could see the body all I saw was my son’s head in his chest cavity and maggots were eating away at his hands. "All he had on was a red T-shirt with the words ‘Your tent or mine’, nothing else. It broke my heart to see that. I identified him by his toes while his brother saw a familiar mark under Pregasen’s foot. We were never prepared for what we saw,” said a tearful Shanker. Rampartab, 33, who believes her husband was murdered, described him as a kind hearted and much respected man in the area. “He was the best person you could ask for. He respected people and always helped wherever he could. Our 6-year-old son is lost without him. “We were married for six years but we had known one another for 14 years. How do I even explain how to live knowing he won’t be at my side.” The family have yet to plan the funeral as police have not yet confirmed his identity. “Our family was there with police. They saw his body but the police have not even come to the house to say they have found my son. We don’t know about his body and when we can even plan for a funeral. All of this is eating us up and upsetting us even more,” said Daisy. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed they have not yet positively identified the body. “He cannot be identified with the naked eye since the body was decomposed. The family must liaise with the investigating officer or branch commander (Wentworth Police Station) who is investigating the case, not complain through the media without contacting the police. "The deceased is unknown and decomposed. An inquest docket was opened at Wentworth police station for investigation,” Gwala said. “DNA tests will be conducted to determine the cause of death and possible date of death.” POST