Durban - The national body of South Africa’s Hindu community is to intervene to try to end the squabble over the sale of the main asset of one of the country’s oldest temples. A public meeting in Mobeni Heights on Saturday heard that the SA Hindu Maha Sabha would set up a meeting between officials of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple and members of a concerned group wanting to save the temple. Read: Anger at relocation of 100-year-old temple This comes amid threats of legal action, including a planned “cease and desist” order to prevent officials proceeding with the sale of its huge temple hall in Mobeni Heights. Concerned local Habi Singh said he had received an e-mail from Sabha president Ashwin Trikamjee stating that he would be stepping in and providing a date for talks between the group and the temple’s new board, which was elected at its AGM on Sunday. Officials of the 102-year-old temple confirmed that they were considering relocating due to dwindling numbers, a lack of funds and crime. Many devotees, residents and other interested parties, however, are opposing the move. On Saturday, Singh organised a public meeting at the nearby Doorgha Hall in Mobeni Heights for interested parties to have their say. About 80 people attended, and it was resolved that a formal body, the Association of Concerned Persons, would be set up. Things got heated when temple officials, who were also present, explained their position on the matter. Pundit Rishi Maharaj, an executive member of the temple, emphasised that the relocation had not been confirmed, but was only up for consideration. “We took the decision about the possible relocation after the members decided not to use public funds and donations to maintain something that is under-used (the hall) by the public,” he said. “The hall has not generated income in the past three years. In 2015, the net income was just over R2000, in 2016 we had R7000, but in 2017 the expenditure was exceeded by R60000,” he said. However, Cavash Roopen, who leases the hall from the temple for functions and events, stood up in dismay, saying he was shocked and could not accept the figures. He said he had paid more than R100000 to the temple management at the beginning of last year. “I cannot understand how the hall is putting them at a loss when I lease out the hall, pay the utility bills for the hall, and I did the tiling, painting and added a boundary wall to the property out of my own pocket,” he said. “They do not pay rates or taxes - the rest of the money is profit. “Yes, I agree the hall has been quiet, but this year is looking good. I have 13 functions already planned, besides the temple functions. I need to see the financials to see how the money went and where they are at a loss.” The temple’s financial officer, accountant Sajeel Maharaj, confirmed their financial situation was not yet dire. “Although we are not in a financial crisis, we could head in that direction, so we are trying to prevent that from happening,” he said. A member of a Lotus Park, Isipingo temple, Shalendra Singh, pointed out that temples were usually run on donations, so the hall should not affect its finances. “Ours is a smaller temple, but we are still running on the little we make. Every temple runs on those donations. Why would the (Luxmi Narayan) temple be affected if the hall was run at a loss? Many temples are run without a hall.” A young devotee, Deeksha Maharaj, urged both parties to work together instead of pointing fingers at one another. “Our temple is our home. Let’s not make the hall income an issue for the temple. Instead of finding a solution, we are arguing over small issues. This temple is special to my family and we would not want to see it go,” she said. The temple’s AGM the next day saw Raj Sewnarain take over as president and Dheren Maharaj as deputy. Contacted for comment, Sewnarain said they would first interact with the SA Hindu Maha Sabha, the Shree Sanathan Dharma Sabha of SA, the Association of Concerned Persons and other Hindu organisations to resolve the challenges. “The purpose of the interaction will be for all participants to make positive contributions to developing workable options to address the difficulties outlined by the temple officials,” he said. POST