The book, which was released last year and aimed at children aged between two and eight, is about a selfish worm who learns a lesson in kindness, compassion and sharing. The 41-year-old mother of three said her son, who was 10-months-old at the time, inspired her to write the tale. “I was struggling to feed him back in 2013 and began telling him a story based on things I could see outside the window. "By the time I was done, he had eaten all his food. A year later I submitted a story to Penguin and they loved it. So, while it was a dream, it wasn’t easy coming up with ideas and in a moment of mummy desperation and frustration I finally found it.” Tedder described reading as similar to breathing. “How can you live without doing either? As a child, my mother and sisters filled my world and imagination with all kinds of stories. "A lot of it was verbal and made up as buying books was a luxury. When I was older, I was introduced to libraries and my father used to chauffeur me every week to our neighbourhood library.” Books, she said, opened up a thirst and hunger in children. “There is that desire to know more. Books instil values and morals in children that parents or teachers can’t. Books make learning fun and create an awakening in a child’s mind. “If a child develops a love for books and reading, the chances are they will not be hanging out on the streets and in malls getting up to no good. As a parent, you are feeding their minds and their brains. You are giving them a gift that will occupy their attention and you are allowing them to travel beyond the universe without leaving the sanctuary and safety of your home.” She said not all parents were able to read to their children, but they should make the effort when possible. Tedder said the power of oral stories should never be underestimated, but that she preferred buying books so they could read over and over. “The thing about owning a book is that it is a gift that never stops giving.” Her book is available at Exclusive Books, Bargain Books and online at TakeAlot and Loot.co.za. It is also available on Kindle.