Durban - Thousands of deaf people live with only the sound of their thoughts, says the director of the KwaZulu-Natal Blind and Deaf Society, Shamila Surjoo. “Imagine the life of a deaf person. The person lives in silence and watches as those around laugh and have conversations. "They cannot laugh with or read lips if the person speaks too fast. The only thing they can do, besides writing down their feelings, is to sign,” said Surjoo. “Why should they learn harder to read a person’s lips and adjust to the person when we as able people can do the learning and sign to make their lives a little easier?” With Talk Sign Day being commemorated on Friday, Surjoo said the society planned to promote the language and create awareness of deaf culture. The society and the KZN Department of Health recently teamed up and enrolled 400 health-care professionals to do a sign language course. The 400 students, and some 700 others who were trained elsewhere, graduated on Friday at the Addington Hospital’s Nurses’ Hall. “It is always a hassle for a deaf person and a ‘normal’ person to converse. When a deaf person goes to the police station or a hospital, for instance, he or she struggles to express himself or herself to someone. “That is why we held a week-long programme to assist professionals to communicate with deaf people.” Surjoo also lauded President Cyril Ramaphosa for recognising sign language during his State of the Nation Address. “He said matric pupils would have sign language as an exam subject. We have been trying for years to get sign language recognised as a 12th official language and this is a step in the right direction.” The society, she said, launched a Talk Sign 1 book that teaches the letters of the alphabet, phrases and on how to sign to communicate effectively. “When we launched Talk Sign five years ago, it was to promote the language and make it universal. We chose March as we also celebrate Human Rights Day and for deaf people it is their human right to be understood.” She said the society also assisted with skills development and provided those who visited their offices with whatever help they needed to make life easier. “We offer various forms of training and a job placement officer helps them find employment. But securing a job is a challenge,” Surjoo said. “Companies need a 2% disability quota but many do not stick to this. So it is great when chain stores, for example, give opportunities to others. Jobs empower blind and deaf people by instilling self-confidence and self worth. “They know they are no different from others and can earn and contribute to their households. It boosts their morale and even their families look at them in a different light.” * For more on the society, call 0313094213. POST