Durban - The Diakonia Council of Churches, which for more than four decades has worked towards a just society, will host its annual ecumenical Good Friday service at dawn on Friday, at the Durban Exhibition Centre before proceeding, in silence, to the City Hall. The well-established tradition of the ecumenical Good Friday Service has become not only the flagship of Diakonia but also a major event in the Durban calendar, attended by thousands of people who gather at the most auspicious time for Christians, to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus and his death on Calvary. Each year, the service highlights a particular aspect of national suffering or injustice. The service this year will focus on the theme “Do Not Fear, Stand Firm”. “We will be reflecting on what it means to stand firm in our faith. We need to stand firm, even if it means standing alone - standing in truth, in hope, in justice and in faith. "The world, and our country, may seem like it is in turmoil with rampant prejudice, corruption, crime and financial strife and while most of us feel we should rather look away and focus on ourselves, families and work stresses, we must ask ourselves if we are doing what God wants us to do in our land,” said Nomabelu Mvambo-Dandala, the executive director of the Diakonia Council of Churches. The sermon will be delivered by Reverend Thulani Ndlazi, the Synod Secretary of the United Congregational Church of Southern Africa. Meditative singing will start at 5.15am, whereafter the first part of the service will take place at 6am. The congregation will proceed through the streets of Durban. The service will conclude at about 8.15am at the City Hall with the flowering of the Cross - as an act of commitment by all present to act for a just society and take up God’s call. Limited parking and street parking is available at the Durban Exhibition Centre with additional off street parking around the City Hall. Transport back to the centre from the City Hall will be arranged for the elderly and the infirm. Entry to the Good Friday service is free, with a collection being taken up during the service to support the burgeoning costs of the event. POST