Bollywood - Few heroines and lead actresses survived a film industry lifespan of 50 years. After all, it is a male-dominated industry and it is always on the lookout for fresher, newer and younger actresses. If I could coin one phrase for Sridevi, it would be “the everlasting golden girl of the silverscreen”. Shree Amma Yanger Ayyapan (Sridevi) was born on August 13,1963, in Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu, India. Being the recipient of multiple awards and accolades, ranking among the highest paid actresses and being the most popular celebrity of the 1980s and 1990s, she was regarded as Indian cinema’s first “female superstar”. Sridevi was renowned for her naturalistic acting abilities, her comedy roles and her graceful dancing skills. She had a reputation for being spontaneous and an obedient actress, who took few takes to achieve the desired results and was a professional on set. At the age of four, Sridevi started her career as a child artist in the 1969 Tamil religious film Thunaivan in which she played a young Lord Muruga. She continued to act as a child artist in Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada films and made her adult debut as a heroine in the 1976 movie Moondru Mudichu at age 13. The movie inaugurated the on-screen chemistry and magic between her and Kamal Hassan in their many movies together since then. She soon established herself as one of the leading actresses of Tamil and Telugu cinema, with leading roles in 16 Vayathinile, Sigappu Rojakkal, Varumayin Niram Sivappu, Meendum Kokila and Moondram Pirai. Sridevi catapulted into stardom and went on to make more Tamil blockbusters. She made her entry in the Telugu and Malayalam film industries with Maa Nanna Nirdoshi (1970) and Ku- mara Sambhavam (1969), respectively. Her Kannada debut was in 1974 in the movie Bhakta Kumbara. Even as a child artist, she won many state awards and recognition. After a long absence from the South, she made a comeback with the South Indian multilingual movie, Devaragaam, which was done in Malayalam, Tamil and Telugu. Her Hindi debut was in 1975 as a child artist in Julie. Sridevi’s first significant role in Hindi cinema came with the 1979 drama Solva Sawan. Other memorable Hindi movies include Himmatwala, Mawaali, Tohfa, Nava Kadam, Maasad, Masterji, Nazrana, Mr India, Chandni, Khuda Gawah, Sadma, Nagina, ChaalBaaz, Lamhe, Gumrah, Laadla and Judaai. Sadma, the Hindi remake of the Tamil movie Moodram Pirai, brought Sridevi critical acclaim. The film, Tohfa, turned out to be the biggest hit of 1984 and it established Sridevi as one of the leading actress of Bollywood and Filmfare magazine declared her “Unquestionably No 1” on their cover. After an absence from movies and a stint in television with the sitcom Malini Iyer, she returned to film acting in 2012 with the successful comedy-drama English Vinglish. Her 300th film role was in the 2017 thriller, Mom, for which she earned critical acclaim for her performance. Sridevi was the recipient of many regional, state and national government awards as well as other film-industry-related awards, which are too numerous to mention. In 2013 the Indian government awarded Sridevi the Padma Shri Award, the country’s fourth highest civilian accolade, for her contribution to the entertainment industry. Honorary awards were also conferred on her by the southern state governments of Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. She was voted “India’s Greatest Actress in 100 Years” in a CNN-IBN (Indian news television) national poll conducted in 2013 on the occasion of the centenary of Indian cinema. With the movie Moon- dram Pirai, the Sridevi-Kamal Hassan pair also appeared on the CNN-IBN 2012 list of “Greatest Romantic Couples on Celluloid” and the film won Sridevi her first Filmfare nomination for Best Actress. She married film producer, Boney Kapoor, in 1996 and have two daughters, Jhanvi, 20, and Khushi, 17. Her untimely death will be a loss to the Indian movie industry. POST