Durban - Sonali Sewbran was just 22, with big dreams of becoming a nurse and a model, before she fell pregnant. The prospect of motherhood then enveloped her as, nine months pregnant, she moved back with her Reservoir Hills family to prepare for the big day. Days away from giving birth, baby clothes, in green and blue, filled the cupboard in her room. They would never be worn. Sewbran and her unborn son died in an accident involving a truck on the N2 at Umgababa after a surprise decision to travel to the South Coast, following a mystery midnight meeting. Now, a year later, her still grieving family are hoping for closure from the most unlikely of people - Sewbran’s lover and the alleged father of her unborn child. Deveshen Naidoo, also 22, who was driving the car at the time of the accident, is facing charges of culpable homicide and reckless or negligent driving. He was back in court for the start of the trial last week but requested an adjournment as he was apparently weighing his options in terms of a plea. The couple, say Sewbran’s family, had been dating for seven years, and their relationship had its ups and downs. The family did not see eye to eye with Naidoo. “One day Deveshen showed up after midnight and she left with him to Port Shepstone. “Her room and the drawer filled with blue and green clothes are still the way she left them on January 8,” said Sewbran’s teary-eyed mother Shireen. “Last we saw Deveshen was the New Year weekend. He spent the weekend with us and we all went to Shongweni, where we had a lovely time. "Deveshen left after the weekend and was due to return around the 14th as the baby was due then. "Just after midnight on January 8, I heard noises, so I woke up to see a panicked Sonali at the door. She said Deveshen was outside and so I opened the door for him.” She said her daughter had agreed to go to Port Shepstone to fetch the rest of her clothes. “I pleaded with her not to leave as she was too close to having the baby, but she refused, saying she would be back in three hours with her stuff,” said Shireen. “Half an hour after her leaving, we received a call: she had been in an accident. “All I remember was grabbing her hospital bag and baby bag, but when we got to the scene, we were told they were no more.” The State charged Naidoo late last year, the family said. They were left dejected when the matter was adjourned. “My child lost her life and we all mentally prepared ourselves for the start of trial today,” Sewbran’s father Kiren said later. “We expected to get justice and get some sort of closure, but now we need to play the waiting game. "Every day my family suffer. We did not only lose our oldest daughter but also our first grandson. "My daughters were robbed of their eldest sister and only nephew. No words can describe the pain we feel every day. They say time heals but we haven’t healed.” Naidoo and his family declined to comment. POST