Durban - The implementation in February of a 9-year-old regulation that prohibits foreign-trained local medical students from doing their internships in South Africa has caused widespread alarm. Hundreds of disgruntled parents, medical graduates and students, together with members of the legal, justice and medical fraternity, have banded together to fight the Health Professions Council of SA (HPCSA) regulation. The regulation, which has been in existence since 2009, forces graduates to complete their internship in their country of study before sitting for their tough SA board exams. Those who have studied abroad in countries such as Mauritius, China and Russia have been told by the HPCSA they would have to complete their internship there before writing the local exams that would enable them to practise here. However, those countries apparently would not allow them to complete their internships there due to their own policies, or work permit and residency issues. Students studying in Cuba on state bursaries, however, are exempted from the regulation. The frustrated youth and their concerned parents met at the Kampara Conference Centre in Clare Estate on Friday evening, with hopes of finding a solution. Graduates who had applied in 2016 and 2017 and been accepted to write the HPCSA board exam in May this year, but who received a letter in February stating that they would not be able to because of the regulation, were urged to seek help from a legal resource centre which had been set up on a pro bono basis. An urgent application appealing against the regulation has already been made in the Pretoria High Court by a foreign-trained medical student, Kapil Sevnaran. Attorney Annie Tooray, of Pravda and Knowles Attorneys, said that a petition would also be needed to draw the attention of the government. “Although we have put in an application to the high court, with hopes that graduates would be able to write the exams in May this year, we need this matter to reach government level. "Many parents and graduates do not know what the problem at hand is. We are dealing with a systematic manipulation that can only be addressed at a national level,” she said. Also at the meeting was Judge Shyam Gyanda, who said he had discussed the issue with various stakeholders. He said students had gone overseas to study medicine due to the “skewed” admission policies in South Africa. “Some students had done fantastically well but would not be admitted because of the racial quotas. Only a certain number of Indian students were admitted to study in South Africa. "Thousands of parents had to send their children overseas with the hope that they would return and be accepted in this country as medical doctors, however, that is not the case,” Judge Gyanda said, adding: “I have made contact with the Mauritius Department of Health and have asked them why there are no places for any foreign students to do their internship.” Gyanda said funding related to internships in South Africa also appeared to be a problem. “After discussions with colleagues that sit on various boards close to the medical school, it was found to also be an issue of money. "The government does not have the money to pay the supervisors to supervise these medical doctors doing internships, or have the equipment, that is why they want our children to do their internship in other countries.” Other members of the legal fraternity present at the meeting included advocates Rajesh Choudree, Reece Kisten, and Feisal Abrahams, and attorneys Logan Govender and Rajen Naidoo. Naidoo said that a committee, which included parents, was to be elected, which would assist with co-ordination of activities and plans of action. The general manager of the South African Medical Association (SAMA), Manivasan Thandroyen, who had flown in from Pretoria for the meeting, said that the organisation was sympathetic towards the plight of the graduates and students. “Although they are not part of the SAMA, as one would need to write their HPCSA board exam before becoming a member, we are sympathetic and supportive of their situation. As an organisation we will assist in finding an amicable solution,” he said. Meanwhile, the IFP hopes to discuss the issue in Parliament on March 13. MP Narend Singh described the HPCSA regulation as unfair to students who had studied abroad. “We hope to receive clarity from the Minister of Health, Aaron Motsoaledi, after he appeared hostile when we addressed the matter in Parliament two weeks ago. "He had stated that the culture, language and quality of education (in SA) is not of the same standard at universities such as in China. “We now want the minister to provide us with the list of accredited universities abroad and if any students are studying at one which is not accredited then we will accept that they would not be able to write the board exams. "However, those that have studied at an accredited university need to be taken into consideration.” Singh said they would also debate the limited seats available in South African medical universities. “Many students have no option but to study abroad because of the quotas; we will debate on more seats being made available as well a private institute for medical studies,” he said. “If we receive no satisfaction after the debate then we will take this matter up further in terms of seeking action from the court.” POST