Durban - Amidst the haunting echoes of the Scottish bagpipes, pallbearers carried the casket of renowned banker Thomas Sivalingam Perumal Naidoo at his funeral on Sunday. Hundreds of mourners gathered at the Grace Family Church in uMhlanga to pay their last respects to the former Standard Bank top KwaZulu-Natal executive. Naidoo, who recently underwent surgery, died of a heart attack last Monday, at the age of 68. The former Chatsworth man was a “gentleman banker”. Like many of his senior peers, he was the face of Standard Bank and part of a pioneering spirit of Indian men and women there. Later he also inspired transformation in the industry. However, his hallmark was his humility. His charming client relations, professional demeanour, diplomacy and knowledge on money matters earned him a household name that resonated well with the financial world and the community at large. He rescued cash-strapped businesses and customers. He shared wise advice on financial planning and management. He saved homes from foreclosure. Naidoo held various managerial and executive positions before becoming the bank’s ombudsman. After retiring, he went into consulting, with ABSA Bank as a client. For a banking official who rose spectacularly from Chatsworth to running banking halls and on to making a mark in boardrooms - he once rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange - Naidoo’s journey has been extraordinarily remarkable. Yet when Naidoo entered the workplace, South Africa’s banking sector was strictly formal, conservative and white-dominated. His peers and clients say Naidoo’s hard work, passion, integrity and compassion paid handsome dividends in the end. He worked smartly and consistently from the lower rungs to the upper echelons in a career spanning more than three decades. During the World Racism Conference at the Durban ICC in 2001, Logie Naidoo, the city’s then deputy mayor, and I, found ourselves in the tower block boardroom of the bank’s regional director in the heart of the CBD. At the start of the first global agenda on racism, we were on the sidelines of the conference on a discourse of the ongoing battle by Tamil-speaking people and guerrilla groups that were locked in the bloody ethno-civil war with the ruling regime in Sri Lanka for human rights and a separate state for Tamils. We informed Naidoo that Reverend Jesse Jackson, long-time US civil rights campaigner against apartheid, was in town. “Let’s host Reverend Jackson and his entourage to lunch in our boardroom,” Naidoo generously responded. Within a day, protocol chiefs rearranged Jackson’s schedule and he and his delegation were the important guests of Naidoo and his senior colleagues. A well-heeled traveller, Naidoo treated his wife to some of the most exotic holiday destinations. His widow, daughters, grandchildren and extended family members wept at the devastating loss of a humanitarian who was always willing to lift someone up. As the coffin lay inside the plush white limousine hearse, the cortège moved and the bagpipes played a swansong tune of the Last Post for a man who has left behind a noteworthy legacy, to his final resting place in Mobeni. POST