Opinion - Please do not take offence, but in today’s column I am talking crab. That tasty crustacean which is almost like a logo of my clan’s surname. They call Govenders, “crab nation”. However, today I want to lift the shell and expose the flesh of an ailment we have in society. What has it to do with crabs, you may ask? Well, have you heard of “crab mentality”? It’s defined in the dictionary as, “if I can’t have it, neither can you”. This is further illustrated by the “crab in the bucket” syndrome. Sound familiar? If you put just one crab into a bucket, it would be possible for it to climb out. However, if you put two or more in, the first attempt at escape by any one of them would be thwarted by one or more of the other crabs. They would physically pull them back down. In that way not a single one can escape. It is possible to, but seeking freedom is futile. Singer Vince Staples sang a song called “Crabs in a Bucket” and part of the lyrics go like this: “Crabs in a bucket, Wanna see you at the bottom, don’t you love it? When they’re hatin’ so you hit ‘em with the encore, Sending shots but you at the top floor.” The very popular author Terry Pratchett featured such a concept in his book, “Unseen Academicals”. He explains through one of his fictional characters that a fishmonger does not bother to put a lid on his bucket of crabs. Simply because “any that try to get out, gets pulled back.” This analogy of crabs is so true in modern society. When an individual makes a success of something, there are always people on hand that will endeavour to bring him down or discredit him. It has become so common that we can liken it to a disease. A social disease. However, it is really a very unsocial thing to do. A word that started off among teenagers aptly describes this kind of person. It was not a proper English word, but has its etymology in slang. It was used in the context of disliking popular music stars, like Justin Bieber and Rihanna. Yet, these days it has become acceptable and is even in the dictionary. The word is “hater”. The saying derived from it is “haters will hate”. Envy, greed and other negative traits make people nasty, bitter and vitriolic. What is their motivation for being like that? Perhaps feelings of personal inadequacy? Jealousy has always been termed "the green monster". It is a very ugly thing. Yet, the practice is so widespread. In a world that is so beset with negativity, fighting your fellow man adds to the miasma of despair. Why is it so difficult to commend and praise the achievements of others? It adds so much towards healthy human relations. It spurs people on to constantly reach new heights of success. We can assist people to go beyond the norm, to search deep within them and pull out the magic. It can only augur well for society. Instead of concentrating on others’ successes and being envious, let us use it to motivate ourselves to strive to achieve similar success and even beyond, while letting others bask in their own sunshine. In that way, others around us, maybe within our circle of friends, will notice our positive aura. That will spur them on to achieve their own greatness. Do you see where I am going with this? Eventually, we will find ourselves surrounded by like-minded, successful people. If each of them in turn motivates people around them, then surely we are helping to create better communities and, ultimately, a better society. To be frank, coming up against a “crab”, can cause plenty of hurt and discomfort if you let it get to you. So analyse this: what makes them act that way? It is your SUCCESS. So the most effective method of combat is: to keep on doing what makes you successful. Focus on yourself and your accomplishments and negative people and their jaundiced views will start to take a back seat in your priority list of life. You were not put on planet earth to please everyone. Use the “haters” as stepping stones to get out of the bucket. Remember, not everyone hates you or your achievements. Those that do are doing themselves a disservice. Many people I have spoken to about this topic tend to say that it is an “Indian thing”. Not true. It is a universal thing. Maybe people say that because their circle of associates are Indians and that experience has been forthcoming from that race. Let me just say in conclusion, if indeed you are an Indian like me and you find yourself imitating the way of the crab, which is a crustacean, please change, because all you will ever become if you don’t change, is a sad, unfulfilled “crushed Asian”. * Ravi Govender is an entrepreneur and philanthropist. POST