The graduates, who were informed on February 16 that they would not be able to sit for the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA) board examination, were ecstatic when they received an e-mail last week, stating that the shock decision had been withdrawn. The all-important exam allows them to practise in SA if they passed. The earlier decision by the HPCSA was in accordance with a regulation which had been implemented only as of February 2 despite being in existence since 2009. The regulation stated that graduates would not be able to write the exam unless they had completed their internships in their country of study. However, that proved impossible for the graduates of universities in China, Mauritius, Russia and India, due to those country’s own rules and regulations. Angered by the regulation, frustrated parents, graduates and students joined forces with members of the legal fraternity to seek action. Kapil Sevnaran, 25, of Scottburgh, who spent about R700 000 to study at the 
Shandong University in China, took the HPCSA to court in 
February appealing the decision. After completing his five-and-a-half years of study in July last year, Sevnaran applied in September to write the board exam in May this year. “I was only notified by friends that an e-mail was sent out about the regulation suddenly being implemented,” he said. He described the about-turn as a “great victory” for the graduates, and for students who would also need to return to write the exam and complete their two years of internship and one year of community service. Annie Tooray of Pravda & Knowles Attorneys, who had assisted Sevnaran with the appeal and was part of the class action suit to have the decision overturned, said the graduates and their parents had been placed under tremendous emotional and financial strain. “The HPCSA must be very careful in notifying the public of these far-reaching policies that they have. Their sudden decision to implement the regulation put the graduates and students writing exams under stress. “Their parents were also left confused and frustrated, even flying out to the foreign countries to find out why their children could not complete their internship there,” Tooray said. “We also call for an independent body that will now monitor the examination process and will have the ability to call up for the papers that have been marked. "The body should also be able to investigate any further discrimination and prejudicial behaviour against these doctors that have studied abroad.” Tooray added that another regulation, which states that professionals would have to make an appeal through the High Court, should also be reviewed. “The professionals should be able to address their grievances in a more cost-effective and transparent manner,” she said. “The cost to make an appeal is extremely expensive, which many would not be able to afford.” POST