Opinion - It's every parent’s nightmare - being awoken by a late night call from the police about an accident involving one of their children. Worse still is when the accident turns out to be tragically fatal and precious lives are lost in gruesome circumstances. The emotional and psychological toll on loved ones is immeasurable and hard to imagine, not only in the days after the tragedy but for many years to come. Driving a car on a public road has inherent dangers even in the safest of circumstances. But when a car is driven at excessive speed or recklessly, the possibility of losing control is far greater. These are the circumstances that probably account for the alarming number of young people, who have met their deaths in horror crashes in recent months. Whether it’s the sheer thrill of speed after a night out or taking part in the dangerous game of drag racing, you are dicing with death. Statistics have shown that young drivers are more prone to be involved in car accidents and more likely to engage in risky behaviour when behind the wheel. That’s why the accident rate among young drivers is so much higher than adults and a majority of teen deaths arising from car crashes involve speeding. Racing on a public road is dangerous, not only for the driver concerned, but also other motorists who happen to be in the vicinity - as we have witnessed so often in areas where illegal drag racers gather and innocent lives are lost. Police need to come down heavily on offenders - arrest people who show no respect for speed limits and traffic laws, which exist for good reason - to regulate traffic and keep the roads as safe as possible. Impose heavy fines and sentences and confiscate the cars of those engaging in dangerous and reckless driving. But our poorly-resourced and under-staffed police force can only do so much. They already have a tough time keeping abreast with all the modern devices used by speedsters to stay ahead of law enforcement and out of trouble. Parents also need to play their role by inculcating in their young ones the importance of responsible driving and the risks involved in speeding and drinking and driving. Education programmes at schools and universities as well as local community meetings can also contribute to raising awareness. Remember that speed kills. Drive safely if you wish to avoid becoming another accident statistic. POST