Darryl Murrisson, 33, and Christopher Houston, 26, were arrested two days after the murder on February 26. Both Murrisson and Houston, made their first appearance in court on February 28. They face charges of murder. Parsons, who lives in the Bluff area was shot dead outside a petrol station on Tara Road in Wentworth while seated in her car on Saturday evening. Her 3-year-old daughter was in the back seat when a gunman shot Parsons through the rear window. The 33-year-old’s husband was inside the station’s convenient store. According to police, an unknown person fired several shots at Parsons. “The victim died at the scene, however, the motive for the killing is unknown at this stage,” said police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele. Police made a dramatic breakthrough on Monday. Reiger Road in Wentworth came to a standstill as police swooped in on the home of one of the suspects. Stunned residents watched as he was handcuffed, taken up to his flat and then placed in the back of a police van. “A 33-year-old suspect was arrested on Monday morning and a second suspect, aged 26, was arrested in the afternoon,” said Mbhele. POST visited the Parsons’ home on Monday to find scores of family and friends there, offering their condolences and comfort to the bereaved family. Family members described Parsons as a strong, humble and loving woman with a “soul of gold”, who was taken too soon. “She was the one person we could always turn to for anything we ever needed. She had a listening ear and would give you great advice,” said one, who requested anonymity. “She was like the ‘mother hen’ among cousins, and very protective. “She was also one of those ‘take-charge’ kind of people - if there was a family function such as a birthday party, bridal or baby shower, she would be the one to organise everything and make sure the person had a lovely day. “These are just some of the things we will miss about her. Easter and Christmas will never be the same, as she always had a function and invited everyone to her home.” Another family member said Parsons was a dedicated wife and mother. “She loved her husband and daughter dearly. She doted on them; her daughter was so attached to her, not leaving her side for even a few minutes. “It is really heartbreaking that some people are so ruthless to do what they have done and claim an innocent life. We will never get over this heartbreak, we want justice to be served.” POST