Now the man responsible will spend the rest of his life in prison. Menzi Jack Mtsholweni, 25, was handed a life sentence by the Verulam Magistrate's Court, as well as a further 45 years for robbery. The family of 40-year-old Haridus, who worked as a mechanic, are happy with the sentence, saying they finally have closure almost two years after his gruesome death. Mtsholweni and his room-mate, a man known as Dickies, had robbed and killed Haridus in May 2016, said police 
spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala. “He was found with a stab wound to the neck in Edmunds Burry Street, Belvedere, and his cellphone was missing. At the time a case of murder was opened at Tongaat Police Station for investigation.” She said that three weeks later, Dickies, 28, was found dead with multiple stab wounds in Belvedere. His belongings were missing. “A case of murder was again opened at Tongaat Police Station for investigation. "Mtsholweni was arrested and linked to both murders. Extensive police investigation revealed that Mtsholweni and Dickies were fighting over Haridus’ cellphone when the accused fatally stabbed him and robbed him of his belongings.” Gwala said the accused was kept in custody throughout the trial. “He was sentenced to life imprisonment for each murder and 45 years for two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances.” Haridus’s family, especially his 13-year-old daughter, have been battling to come to terms with his death, but now that his killer has been brought to book, they are at peace. “You never truly recover when a loved one is taken from you in such a brutal manner, but we are happy we got justice for his death,” said his cousin, Devan Govender. “I remember that day so clearly. He was returning home after buying beers from a local tavern with our cousin, Dean Naicker. They were five minutes away from Neeran’s home when he was attacked. "Dean had been walking in front of Neeran, and when he turned around to check on him, he saw that Neeran was being robbed,” recalled Govender. He said as the cousin ran towards Haridus the suspect fled into bushes taking the cellphone. “When his cousin got to him, he saw the stab wound and tried to apply pressure to stop the bleeding. Knowing that he needed to get help, his cousin told Neeran to apply pressure to the wound and he would be back.” Govender said his cousin alerted his wife, Keveshnee Pillay, to what had happened. “Neighbours contacted Reaction Unit South Africa and SAPS for assistance, but before they arrived at the scene, he had already died.” The family were devastated, he said. “Dean is still in shock over everything that has happened. He does not even talk about the incident. We think about Neeran every day. He was a jovial person, always laughing and smiling.” Govender said when he told Haridus’s elderly mother about the conviction she was overjoyed. “She lives in Johannesburg, and this ordeal has taken a toll on her. It was very hard for her to accept his death; as a mother, you don't expect to lose a child. But knowing his killer is behind bars gives her peace.” Govender said Haridus had had dreams of opening his own vehicle-tracking business. “His pride and joy was his daughter. He lived for her. He wanted to give her a better life and believed starting his own business would do just that, but he never got a chance to fulfil that dream.” Govender described Mtsholweni as a menace to society. “I still cannot understand what type of person takes another person's life. We are thankful to Tongaat police for their work and the community for coming forward with information. "I hope that this sentence services as a warning to other criminals to think twice before committing a crime. I also hope that other families who are in the similar situation will know that getting justice is possible.” KwaZulu-Natal acting provincial commissioner Major General Bheki Langa commended the detective for solving the cases and sending the accused to prison. POST