Durban - Sound asleep with their 5-month-old baby in the bedroom, a young Reservoir Hills couple say they were horrified to discover that their home was invaded during their most vulnerable state. Amelia Nathaniel, 31, recounted the moment when she realised that someone had entered her home at about 2am on Sunday. “My first thought was to run to my baby, to see if he was okay. “To think that someone could come in so easily and silently is terrifying. “They could have taken my child and killed us in our sleep, but I thank God that we were unharmed.” Nathaniel said she awoke at about 3.30am to prepare a bottle for her crying baby. “That’s when I realised that something was wrong,” she said. “My baby, who sleeps in the cot next to us, normally wakes up at 2am for a feed but on this particular night he didn’t cry until an hour later. “I woke up, walked to the passage and saw a pair of my jeans lying on the floor. I then went to use the bathroom. By then my husband had woken up.” She said her husband went to the lounge and realised that the sliding door was open. “He discovered that our house was broken into. I immediately ran to my baby to see if he was fine.” Nathaniel said the suspects had removed the insulation from the sliding door, pulled back the glass and unlocked the door from the inside. Cellphones, laptop, a nappy bag, two handbags, wallets and car keys were taken. Nathaniel explained that she and her husband had their phones next to their pillows and said it was upsetting to realise that the suspects were in their room, looking over them and feeling around their bed, all while they were fast asleep. She said she was a light sleeper. “I wake up even if a needle had to drop. “This leads me to think that the robbers used some sort of sedative. “I’m not sure what kind, but I did get a weird burnt metal smell in the lounge.” Nathaniel, a Grade 3 teacher at a private school in Durban, said she had a month’s worth of school work in her laptop bag, all of which were taken. “Our IDs, licences and bank cards are also gone.” Later in the day, Nathaniel’s husband searched around the gated property and found some of her school papers and their baby’s blanket strewn on the bank. Officers from the Sydenham police and a fingerprint expert attended the scene. Captain Nqobile Gwala, of KZN SAPS, confirmed that a case of housebreaking and theft had been opened at Sydenham police station. “No arrests or recoveries have been made at this stage.” POST