Durban - Gauteng grandmother Devikiamma “Devi” Pillay was having the time of her life on a solo trip to India.\ But unbeknownst to the retired dressmaker, her family back home were in a panic when she failed to make contact for weeks. With no word from her, her family turned to social media hoping someone would know. Read: Granny still missing in India Then her worried son flew to India, expecting the worst. But all ended well when Pillay, 76, was found safe and well last Thursday. The reason for her lack of communication? A blocked cellphone. Family spokesperson Dawn Gounden said Pillay had been staying at a guest house in Colaba, Mumbai. On February 24 she boarded a train for Orissa where she was to meet three of her friends from Norway. “Her friends are doctors and run a clinic in Orissa. She was going to do her seva (community service) with them at the clinic. "She reached Orissa on the 25th and the signal on her cellphone was blocked. She waited for the doctors at a guest house in the area but they did not show up.” Gounden said that on March 2, Pillay boarded a train to Calcutta and then travelled by taxi to Varanasi, a city in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh. “She arrived in Varanasi on March4 and went to the temple on a pilgrimage. She spent 10 days at the temple unaware that her family was looking for her.” Last Thursday, the grandmother of four returned to the guest house in Colaba, Mumbai, and was notified by the manager her family was looking for her. “Her son Kenny and daughter Mala became concerned when they could not reach her and, fearing the worse, they started a campaign on social media asking people for help,” Gounden said. “They also enlisted the services of both the South African and Indian authorities. Kenny flew to Mumbai last week to spearhead a search for her.” Gounden said mother and son were reunited at the guest house. “Devi went to the Mumbai police to have her cellphone unblocked and she was shocked that her family had been looking for her, because this was her ninth trip to India and she knew her way around.” Gounden added the family was grateful to everyone in South Africa and India who helped with the search. POST