The 34 students have taken a gap year after matriculating to enter the cross-cultural Experience Enlargement programme run by Canadian Mennonite University. They arrived in South Africa in January to experience different cultures by living with local families and joining in on their daily activities. Through the initiative, they aim to learn more about nation-building and democracy in South Africa. They had stayed with black families in Joburg and coloured families in Cape Town before arriving in Durban last week to engage with the Indian community. “This whole experience has been amazing,” said 19-year-old Hannah McNeilly of Ontario. “When we arrived in Durban, you could feel the warmth of the people. The family I lived with was the best. “They got us Indian attire and said we could keep them as a remembrance.” McNeilly said she had not known that Indians lived in South Africa. “This is such a beautiful culture and I am glad to learn about it here. We do have Indians in Canada but they seem to keep to themselves, so I never interacted with any at home. It’s great to come here and be so accepted.” Fellow student Madeline Bodgan, 18, of Whitby, added: “The granny at the home I was placed at is the sweetest. She always checked up on me and considered me one of her own, which was great.” Katelyn Leischnnir, 18, of Regina, said she wished to stay longer in Durban, and Adam Reiger, 18, of Alberta, described his last day at Merebank as “a wonderful experience”. “It is great to experience the cultures and see South African Indians are similar to Canadian Indians. I love how their culture is kept alive despite being in different countries. The food here is amazing and the hospitality is even more warming.” On their last day in Durban, pupils from Merebank Secondary School held a get-together. They enlightened the students on the arrival of Indians in South Africa in 1860 and working on sugar cane plantations as indentured labourers. The pupils spoke on how members of the Indian community had become activists during apartheid and progressed to become respected leaders in varying fields. The Reverend Cecil Subroyan, of the Merebank Presbyterian Church, which has been hosting Canadian students in South Africa for a decade, described this programme as an “interbonding of cultures”. “This is an experience of a lifetime for them. They get to break bread with families and learn about cultures, while the families here also 
get to learn. These kids have loved the experience,” said Subroyan. He added that they were in talks with the university to allow students from South Africa the opportunity to travel to Canada. POST