The chilling killings of the unrelated KwaZulu-Natal North Coast father and the South Durban mother, both in their cars and as their young children watched in horror, have devastated their families. The two incidents, which took place just days apart from each other, have now galvanised their communities, who have pleaded with South Africa’s new government to prioritise the fight against crime. Ordinary citizens, they said, should no longer have to constantly live in fear. Father-of-three Hardew was teaching his teenage son to drive along a dirt road near the family farm in Newark, near KwaDukuza, when they were ambushed on Wednesday afternoon. The 41-year-old fruit and vegetable supplier was shot in the shoulder. The bullet stopped in his heart. His son, who was unharmed, drove his dad, who was bleeding profusely in the passenger seat of their Toyota Camry, to their home where a relative rushed him to hospital. Rabin Hardew said his brother Suresh and his son were attacked by two men who had jumped out from bushes. “My brother saw one of the suspects run out of the bush with a gun in his hand and the first thing he did was shield his son.” He said the robbers wanted the car and when they were unable to get it they opened fire on the father and son before running away. “My brother was shot in the arm, and somehow the bullet penetrated his heart. Although shocked by what had transpired, his son managed to drive to their home to alert family. Suresh was then taken to hospital where he died.” The family, he said, were distraught. “He was my baby brother. Just last week Sunday I spent the whole day with him not knowing that it was the last time I would see him or get to talk to him. Suresh was a lovely person. He always wore a smile and was friendly to everyone.” Suresh, who leaves behind his wife Mumsie, 42, and three children - the youngest is 3 years old - was laid to rest on Friday. “He was looking forward to his daughter Sanalie matriculating, and he wanted her to pursue a career in teaching. He shared a close relationship with his children,” said Rabin. His son, he added, looked up to his dad and they did everything together. “He watched the men kill Suresh and right now he is in a state of shock. As a family, we are trying to give him support.” Rabin said the hardest thing the family had to do was break the news of the tragedy to their 80-year-old father, Hardew Sathinarain. “He is devastated by my brother’s death, and he is struggling to come to terms with the loss. My siblings and I moved away from the farm and settled elsewhere, but Suresh continued to live in our family home. He took care of my father.” Crime, he said, was getting worse by the day.  “Nobody is safe, and you really don’t know when it is your turn. These men are ruthless and trigger-happy. Taking an innocent life means absolutely nothing to them. We, as a family, want the culprits to be brought to justice and the death penalty to be reintroduced.” Suresh’s friend, Vishwan Jaikarrun, described him as “humble and hard working”. “We have a friendship spanning 22 years, and the one thing I admired about Suresh is how he did everything for his family, but these ruthless criminals have taken him away.” A frustrated Jaikarrun said crime in the country was escalating and harsher punishment needed to be handed down to criminals. “South Africa is a good country to live in, but crime is bringing us down. Every day we read on social media and newspapers about how families are being brutally attacked. This needs to stop. We need government intervention.” Kathleen Naidoo, the DA’s PR councillor for the area, said she was outraged by the murder. “It is frustrating when you hear that innocent men and women are being killed in front of their children. First Suresh and now the mother from Wentworth. One can only imagine the trauma these children are faced with. Criminals are ruthless. “What is happening to our country?” Naidoo said Newark was notorious for crime. “I understand that police have their own challenges, like the shortage of staff and vehicles but the government needs to prioritise on clamping down on crime. I hope President Cyril Ramaphosa has a plan of action.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said charges of murder and attempted murder were opened at Newark Police Station for investigation. By time of publication no arrests had been made. POST