Durban - For the past 165 years, the Durban Central Library has been catering for people from all walks of life, playing an important role in the development of citizens who have walked through its doors. The library, which is in the Durban City Hall, boast a membership of 14262 with more than 150000 books available for the young, old and learned. Librarian Yvonne Naidoo said about 500 people visited a day. “There is a high volume of people, which include schoolchildren, students and those in search of a good book. We issue about 100000 books a year. However, we have a high in-house usage.” She said technology had evolved over the years and, as a result, libraries have had to undergo similar changes. The Durban Central Library offers a cyber-zone, which offers access to the internet. “We also have a section that caters for high school pupils. There’s a corner allocated for them to read, do their projects or homework. We want the library - and not the streets - to be their hangout place.” The library also offers a children’s zone. “We place a lot of focus on the younger ones in order to instil a reading culture in them. When there are many children around, we conduct a storytelling session, which is about an hour. "We interact with them by getting them to read or ask questions. We also have competitions for the older children and teenagers. We get them to write and create stories.” Naidoo believed e-books would never completely replace print. “A lot of people prefer holding a book between their hands. How long one can stare at a screen or hold a tablet?” For Morningside mother, Prathna Dawah, reading a book encouraged lateral thinking and was a great source of knowledge. She prefers to visit the library than read online. “I visit the library every two weeks and browse through the bookshelves, looking for my favourite thrillers. Then I go on to the children’s section to find suitable books for my five-year-old son. "The books I get for him must offer brain-stimulating stories and captivating pictures. It is a great feeling to hold the book while reading and show my son the pictures.” Dawah said reading was also a way to relax after a long day while the internet was great when one wanted to catch up on current affairs. Mother of two young daughters, Thurusha Wudistha, does not want to expose her children to the internet at a young age. “There are too many young children sitting with cellular phones and tablets, playing games instead of reading books. You worry every time they log onto a site, even if it is said to be ‘safe’.” POST