Durban - This week we look at motor vehicle safety features. Is it right to exclude certain basic features based on the cost of a vehicle? We all are aware of the carnage on our roads, with deaths recorded at more than 12000 annually. This is a major concern as we head into the Easter weekend, a major contributor to these statistics. I believe that every car sold must have the necessary safety features, like ABS and front airbags as the minimum. These features are usually found in the more expensive models, which means that safety is compromised from an economic point of view and I aver that this should not be the case. One must look at it from another point of view as well, where car manufacturers try to keep costs down, especially in entry-level models. The Automobile Association recently revealed its Entry-Level Vehicle report. Of the 25 vehicles priced under R160000 in SA, two were categorised as being acceptable from a strictly safety point of view. Ten vehicles were classified as having poor safety, or little thereof, and 13 were found to have moderate safety. So how did the AA arrive at this? The cars surveyed were evaluated against the number of active safety features, like anti-lock braking systems, electronic stability control, and passive features like airbags. The two vehicles with an acceptable rating were the Toyota Aygo 1.0 and the Nissan Micra 1.2, both of which had ABS, including front and side airbags. Moderate safety features in the R160000 category included the Chery QQ3 1.1 TXE, Chevrolet Spark 1.2 Curve, Mitsubishi Mirage 1.2GL, BAIC D20 hatch 1.3, Chery J2 1.5 TX, Kia Picanto 1.0 Street, Suzuki Swift hatch, 1.2GA, Mahindra KUV100 1.2 G80, Tata Vista 1.4 Ignis, Suzuki Swift Dzire sedan 1.2, Honda Brio hatch 1.2T XMS and the Suzuki Celerio 1.0 GA. The common safety features in these models are ABS brakes and dual front airbags. The cars that scored poorly in that price margin were the Renault Kwid 1.0 Expression, Kia Picanto 1.0 Start, Datsun Go+ 1.2 Lux, Kia Picanto 1.2 Start, Hyundai 1.1 Motion, Chery QQ3 0.8 TE, Datsun Go 1.2 Mid, Tata Indica 1.4 LGi, Tata Vista 1.4 Ini. These cars did not have ABS and some only a driver’s airbag or none at all. On the subject of airbags, Mazda SA has issued a recall on faulty airbags that affects an estimated 28000 vehicles, including the Mazda 2, Mazda 6 and RX-8 vehicles produced between 2002 and 2014. Mazda sent reminders to affected owners and placed ads in national newspapers but there was a a 9% response rate. Should you be affected, check your vehicle in at a Mazda dealership near you. Looking at the monthly and yearly car sales barometer, the Datsun Go and the Renault Kwid feature high on the sales list. One can assume that the cash-strapped car buyer is very price dictated and is willing to compromise vital safety features. According to the AA, the intended aim of the report is to highlight the importance of safety features and how this aspect can save lives. It also forces the consumer to consider safety aspects, and not just price, in one’s ultimate decision when buying a brand-new vehicle. The price of life cannot be equated to rand and cent value, and therefore should never be compromised. I’d rather have the basic safety features than some of the other extras, which one could do without. So the next time you purchase a vehicle, take the safety features into account. It might just be the difference should you be involved in an accident. I hope that the year-on-year statistics from our roads continue to decrease. If you are going away this Easter, happy holidays and safe travels. * Naresh Maharaj is an MC, Radio News and Sports Editor/ Presenter, Motoring Journalist, Member of the SAGMJ, International Sports Correspondent and Voice-over artist. E-mail: maharaj@telkomsa.net, twitter: @nmaharaj321, Instagram: maharajnaresh POST