Durban - A Montclair mother who was allegedly murdered in a staged hijacking was afraid to leave her house on the day of her death. This was according to her son, Srikesh Sewnarain, who relived the fateful day when he last saw his mother, Shanaaz Sewnarain. He was one of 22 witnesses asked to testify at the re-trial of his 51-year-old father, Rajiv Sewnarain, who is accused of killing his mother on Friday, December 10, 2010. The Clairwood businessman was sentenced to life imprisonment on December 22, 2010, after he allegedly confessed to paying two hitmen R30000 to kill his wife of 20 years. A year later, Sewnarain had a change of mind and appealed against his conviction and sentence, alleging he could not remember making a confession. In 2016, he launched a review application before Judges Achmat Jappie and Dhaya Pillay in the Pietermaritzburg High Court, claiming he was assaulted by police, forced into making a confession and could not remember pleading guilty. His application was successful and the case was set aside for re-trial. Dressed in a black golfer shirt and grey formal pants, his son Srikesh stood in the witness box and answered question after question posed by prosecutor Cheryl Naidu. “She was scared to leave the house that Friday but I told her that everything would be fine and she would be back before she knew it,” he testified before Judge Shyam Gyanda about the day his mom died. A grey-haired Rajiv, wearing a white T-shirt and faded blue jeans, listened attentively as his son testified. Srikesh, who had been working part-time at his dad’s business in Clairwood at the time, said his mom was at home recuperating after she was shot multiple times in an apparent hijacking a month earlier. He said that because it was a Friday, it was tradition to order take-out food. “We decided on getting Scooters pizza. It was my mom’s suggestion. After work I went home and sat on the lounge floor and was watching TV with my sister. "My mom was in her room also watching TV. My father went straight into the bathroom and when he came out, he asked my sister and I if we wanted to get food. “My response was that I just had came from work and still needed to shower. My sister was watching her favourite programme.” He said his mom was going to leave the house for the first time that day and was feeling anxious. He had to reassure her. “It was the first time she had ever left the house. She was a bit scared but she also wanted to overcome her fear so she decided to go.” He said that was the last time he saw his mother. He said he became worried after a few hours had passed. He called his parents but there was no answer. He said he then decided to look for his parents but later received a call that his father was in hospital. “When we got to St Augustine’s Hospital, my dad was on the hospital bed receiving treatment. He was shot behind his heart. When he saw me he asked: ‘Is mummy okay, where’s mummy?’” Srikesh said he became increasingly concerned after that. Hours later, a relative told him that his mother had passed away. Shanaaz’s body was found in Folweni, on the outskirts of Isipingo. She had bullet wounds in her head and two to her chest. A second witness, Siphiwe Shezi, a resident of Folweni, said he was leaving his sister at a bus stop on the M35 at around 8pm when he saw a Golf VeloCiti drop off a man dressed in a white T-shirt, jeans and bedroom slippers. He said he thought the man was under the influence of alcohol because he staggered before falling to the ground. “When I came closer, the man asked me to help him. But I ran away because I was in shock. There was a lot of blood. He seemed to be bleeding from below his left or right collar bone, I’m not too sure.” Shezi said he noticed a phone in the man’s pocket and ran to get help from nearby friends. He said the bleeding man was taken away in an ambulance. Asked if the man was in court, Shezi nodded and pointed to Rajiv, who smiled. On Tuesday, Soonil Roopram, a friend of the accused, took the stand to detail the night of the murder when he was called by Rajiv. “My phone kept ringing as I had it on silent. When I dialled back, a black guy answered. He told me that Sewnarain had been shot and hijacked,” he said. “The phone was given to Sewnarain who told me he was near Folweni. "He told me they took his wife away and I must go and find her. About 10 minutes later, I got a call from the ambulance driver saying he was taking Sewnarain to hospital.” Roopram said that two days after Shanaaz’s funeral, Rajiv admitted to having a girlfriend. Sandra Baliram, Shanaaz’s sister, spoke to POST outside court and said it had been almost eight years since her death and the family thought they finally had closure. But now old wounds were being opened. (Proceeding) POST