From September 30, the shad season will close for two months, so you will have to make do with currying other species of fish. No person, with or without a permit, will be allowed to catch shad, a firm favourite in Indian households, until December 1. The chairperson of the KZN Fishing Forum, Riaz Khan, has called for all fishermen to respect the ban, adding that it was implemented to ensure the fish do not become extinct - like the blue shad. “In the days of our forefathers, the blue shad was popular. It often grew to more than a metre in length and was quite fat. In many Indian homes, the blue shad was the preferred fish for breyani. “What we now have is ‘paper shad’ and, unfortunately, it is too thin for such a dish,” said Khan. He said he was glad the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries imposed the ban. “Imagine a world where our children will never know what shad is. It would be a tragedy to say the least. We need to think about our kids.” Khan blamed trawlers for “raking” the sea of fish, saying the ones who suffered were the 1200 subsistence fisher folk, who generally abided by the bag limit of four. “We are busy discussing the quota with the ministers. Anglers catch one or two but the trawling boats are a massive issue. They are taking everything in Durban, catching about 500 at a time.” Marine biologist Mike Dyer said that during the off-season, fishermen must not flout the rules and encouraged them to “catch and release”. “I urge fishermen to be careful when catching shad. Handle them with as much care as possible. Try and use a non-barbed hook and release the fish immediately into the ocean.” Desmond D’sa, of the South Durban Community Environment Alliance, added that there had been an abundance of shad this year. “Shad are biting all over the place, so fishermen are taking advantage while they still can.” D’sa added that over the past three weeks, fishermen were allowed to fish near Durban’s North Pier as Transnet builds safety bars in front of the pier. Fishermen, he said, can fish at South Pier, Lucky Dip at North Pier, Esplanade at the Grunt Gully, Snake Park, Brighton Beach, Ansteys and Virginia Beach. “They cannot fish inside the harbour, (near) heavy industries, a few beachfront piers and Cuttings Beach. We are, however, working with the City to try to get them open.” He said that while shad season draws to a close, fishermen can target salmon, grunter, yellowtail, mullet and blacktail. The Durban Port Manager for Transnet National Ports Authority, Nokuzola Nkowane, said they were looking at long-term engineering solution at north pier, including a platform to support fishing activities on the north breakwater, without endangering the safety of fishermen; and they are in talks with the City regarding paving on the pier. To fish off allocated piers, within the port limits, one needs a permit issued by the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries and a fishing permit issued by Transnet National Ports Authority. POST