Durban - Vanessa Govender's latest book Beaten Not Broken has caught the attention of DA leader Musi Maimane who penned the former journalist a letter. The tell-all book takes readers into intimate and often graphic accounts of Govender's experience as a victim of gender-based violence, while in a 5-year relationship with a colleague at the SABC. The letter reads: 'I am most encouraged by your bravery in exposing abuse in any form. I pray that your book will inspire many more South Africans to speak out about abuse, to stand up to abusers and break the cycle.' Speaking to the Daily News on Friday, Govender said the letter was personally delivered to her by long-time friend, former SABC colleague and MP Dianne Kohler Barnard. "She read the letter out at the opening of the launch last night which was done by Bargain Books and hosted by VovoTelo in Ballito Lifestyle Centre," said Govender. Govender said the letter "took my breath away" that someone as influential as Mmusi Maimane, the leader of the official opposition, took the time and made the effort to write to me and offer his support and words of encouragement. "I felt a quiet sense of accomplishment holding his letter in my hands. Victims and survivors are starting to be heard and right at the top levels. And we are going to get louder. Powerful men are choosing to stand with us. "A powerful man has chosen to stand with me. And in doing so he has chosen to stand with every single victim, every single survivor and the families who have lost their daughters, mothers and sisters at the violent hands of their intimate partners." On her launch, she said: "More than 140 people across all race and gender divides attended. It’s become clear as Mmusi says in his letter, we are a nation in pain. Too many of us have horror stories. History is going to remember these times women said enough, when great and powerful men said enough and that Beaten But Not Broken can play a tiny fraction of a role in this historical and seismic shift in how we deal with gender-based violence, is all I can hope for." SA Beaten Not Broken is listed 9th on best South Africa's non-fiction. Daily News