Durban - A sudden fall changed the life of a Pinetown teenager, who was left unable to walk and later diagnosed with Erwing’s sarcoma. Liam Reddy, 17, fell during a physical education class at school last July, which led to him being told he had the rare bone cancer. His mother, Pravashnee, said after his fall, his knee had become inflamed and he had been prescribed medication, but two days later the pain returned. “When we returned to the hospital, the X-ray revealed that Liam had a spot on his hip bone. “The doctor said he would liaise with other orthopaedic surgeons, one of whom suggested it could be tuberculosis of the bone. “Liam was then put on tuberculosis medication, while continuing with a course of anti-inflammatories. “The pain, however, did not subside. It was so unbearable, he could not sleep and would roll in pain. “He underwent a CT-aided biopsy of the hip and the results were inconclusive. The doctor then said he wanted to do an open biopsy and decompression on his hip. “That’s when Liam underwent his first major operation,” said Pravashnee, adding that three days later the pain had returned. While waiting for the results, she met a doctor friend at a funeral and spoke of their dilemma. He referred them to another medical specialist, who did another open biopsy. Last September, Liam was diagnosed with cancer. “We were shocked when the doctor said he could clearly see the tumour in the soft tissue surrounding his hip, on the MRI scans done by the previous doctor a month earlier. The spread of the tumour into his hip cone had caused the hip to disintegrate, which affected his femur. “He said the cancer was still in Stage 1 and that we had caught it in time, but he would need a hip replacement,” she said. After undergoing a couple of chemotherapy courses, Liam’s tumour shrunk and he was ready to have a complete pelvic hip and femur replacement. After spending 21 hours in theatre and three days in ICU, Liam is now learning to walk again and has restarted chemotherapy before undergoing radiation. Liam, who had to leave school while in Grade 11 last year, said he had to press the pause button on life as everything had changed. “My friends don’t know how to behave around me but all I need right now is love and support. “I am remaining positive and have placed my trust in God while taking each day as it comes.” He hoped to return to school next year and complete Grade 11. “Education is important. My goal is to become a mechanical engineer.” Pravashnee, an office administrator, said the whole experience had been overwhelming and financially draining on her and her husband, Trevor, a mechanic. “I have to continually look to the Lord Jesus Christ for strength and grace because I always have to be strong and in control. “My family and I feel like we have been hit by a tsunami and a hurricane all in one.” Liam’s operations cost over R1million, most of which had been covered by medical aid, but the family were still in need of funds for other costs. She said her other son, Cuen, left work as an online English teacher last November to help take care of his brother. POST