Dhupelia, 63, a former teacher and retired businessman, is the public relations officer at the 1860 Heritage Centre in Derby Street and the Sydenham Community Policing Forum; a group he joined 19 years ago after being hijacked. He is also a member of the Gandhi Development Trust outreach programme and the Phoenix Settlement Trust and sits on the board of the Clare Estate Crematorium Trust. His passion for community work began while still a lad. “I spent most of my weekends at the Phoenix Settlement farm with my grandmother, Sushila Gandhi. The settlement was surrounded by poor families, who lived in tin homes. It would rain so heavy that their homes would become flooded and some destroyed.” Hand in hand with his grandmother in the rain, they would walk around the settlement to see if any families needed help. “During these experiences I realised the impact of poverty.” He joined the Kathiawad Hindu Youth Organisation and apart from its social activities, they donated food to the needy and got involved in community upliftment projects. Growing up in Dr Goonam (Prince Edward) Street with his parents, Nanoo and Sita, and two siblings, Dhupelia was surrounded by political influences, including his aunt, Ela Gandhi, uncle, Mewa Ramgobin, and veteran activist and the former president of the ANC, Chief Albert Luthuli, who often worked alongside the Indian community. “ They never saw race or financial status. Everyone was one. It made me realise that we all want a better South Africa but the actual fact is, we must make the change ourselves”. Dhupelia said every day South African passed informal settlements or beggars on the street “and what do we do about it?” “In most cases nothing. We shake our heads in shame but do we ever talk to them? They are human beings just like us and face their own challenges. Social cohesion does not start with the government, but with us. We are the ones who can make the change now.” Speaking about his role in the Sydenham Community Policing Forum, he said he was often inundated with calls from the public for help. “On one day there is a fire in an informal settlement and displaced families need help, and at other times I get calls from those who need baby products for their children. I am at the beck and call of the community.” When he is not helping others, he spends his time at the 1860 Heritage Centre promoting the country’s heritage and legacy. “I want future generations to know about the Struggle and achievements of our country and those who fought in a peaceful manner for our democracy.” This, he added, included the “The Consulate 6” that comprised Archie Gumede, Mewa Ramgobin, George Sewpersadh, MJ Naidoo, Billy Nair and Paul David. They sought refuge in the British Consulate in Durban in 1986, as they were being persecuted by the security police. This brought international coverage to the Struggle. “As a nation, we can learn from our history and on how we can peacefully achieve our goals.” In his spare time, Dhupelia loves reading, going for walks on the beach and spending time with his dog, Bella, as well as family and friends. POST