Durban - The Association for the Aged (Tafta) will commemorate the United Nations’ International Day of Older Persons (UNIDOP) on October 1. Using this year's theme “Celebrating Older Human Rights Champions” the association will showcase some of Tafta elders’ wisdom and human rights experiences. “What better way to celebrate this day than by sharing the years of knowledge, experience and wisdom retained by this generation?” explained Tafta CEO, Femada Shamam. She added that by doing so, the association also hoped to dispel some of the myths and stigmas of diminished mental capacity often associated with the ageing process. “As the UN declaration around ageing rightfully states; the process of ageing should not compromise an older person’s fundamental human rights and inherent dignity, which is why, at Tafta we dedicate our efforts to ensuring that the National Week of Older Persons is commemorated with a range of activities to reaffirm our own commitment to promoting the human rights of all older persons." To Tafta Kings Hall resident Senmathie Pillay, growing old means keeping busy and keeping her mind active by supporting causes that will benefit others. "We can each play a part in making the world a better place through the service of others. When you’re able to, always reach out to a person who needs a helping hand," said the 98-year-old. Hashim and Gloria Vawda, also Tafta residents, said their own experiences in a previously segregated South Africa changed significantly when they moved into an integrated Tafta community. Hashim said he has learnt that you need to invest time in looking past exteriors – get to know people on a deeper level and differences become insignificant.” Events planned for the week included a picnic for all Tafta elders on October 1 in Amanzimtoti, a  sports day at Hartley Road Primary on October 3 and an Italian themed social planned for the Anna Conradie Wellness Centre at Tafta Lodge on October 4. In addition, there will also be tea and pamper parties, visits to restaurants and Ushaka Marine World as well as other outings sponsored by some of the association's long-standing benefactors. The association’s also has a commemorative coffee table book which features a 60 year review of the association’s history in elder care. To purchase a copy of the book, which retails at R350, email ateesha@tafta.org.za or call her on 031 332 3721. POST