When the matric pupil from Westcliff, Chatsworth, heard a neighbour was involved in an argument with his younger brother, he confronted the man to iron things out. The 20-year-old’s mediation attempt backfired and he was fatally shot on Saturday. His mother, Sharon Chetty, said her son’s death had left the family shattered but they were finding peace in God and have forgiven his killer. “Roryen was a bright, intelligent, witty and confident young man. He was full of laughter and would always joke around with his siblings,” she told POST shortly before his funeral yesterday. “There was never a dull moment when he was around. His only weakness was his family and he would do anything to protect them.” The mother of six said she was at work when she received a call from her younger son, Jezeren, informing her that Naidoo was wounded and taken to Life Chatsmed Garden Hospital by one of his friends. “My heart was gripped by fear not knowing what had happened to him. On my way to hospital, I kept thinking that maybe it was something minor. When I arrived, I was informed he was shot and was no more.” Chetty said she broke down in tears. “It was so hard to believe. He was determined to finish matric and had dreams of pursuing a career in law. There was so much he wanted to accomplish.” She said she did not know who her son’s killer was, but did not hold any ill feelings against the person. “It was tough for me to take this stand but after our church held a service at our home on Sunday, I made peace with what happened. I cannot judge him (the killer). Only God can deal with this person for what he has done.” She said her son’s death must be a lesson and turning point for other youth in the community. Her ex-husband, policeman Rodney Naidoo, said his son’s big dreams had been destroyed. “He loved life, his friends and siblings. They would just have to call and say they needed help and he would be there. He also loved his grandmother; she was like his god, as she had raised him from a boy. He was a happy-go-lucky person.” Naidoo said his son was excited to complete his matric and join the SAPS. “He had told us he would join the police service and study labour law, just like me, but all those dreams are shattered.” Many of Roreyn’s friends paid tribute to him at his funeral. Macallister Pillay, who had known him since primary school, described his friend as respectable and humble, saying he would always help those in trouble. “He was the first person we would call if we needed help because he would never let us down. We were a very big group of friends, and would do everything together. He even used to cook at home, and would make sure to bring whatever he had made for us.” Another friend, Azhar Chanderpal, said that every day he would tell them he was determined to complete school and move out of the area. “He had goals and wanted a better life.” The accused, Gordon Goundenm appeared in the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday and was granted R8 000 bail. As part of his bail conditions, he has to relocate to Johannesburg. The case has been adjourned to January next year for further investigation. Police confirmed that a case of murder was being investigated. POST