Durban - Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Police has expressed concern after it was revealed that the South African Police Services (SAPS) had to undergo a second qualified audit opinion from the Auditor-General for a second year in a row. Francois Beukman said there is a need for new blood and a shake up of the top level management at SAPS. Commenting after the report was tabled in Parliament on Thursday, Beukman, said the qualified audit opinion raised some serious concerns regarding the financial, procurement and contract handling of senior management within the SAPS. He has called for both Police Minister, Bheki Cele and National Commissioner of Police, General Khehla John Sitole, to shake up their management team. “They must bring the requisite skills with regard to the areas highlighted by the AG, in order to strengthen the internal control mechanisms,” he said. According to Beukman, it was clear that new blood needed to turn the ship around. “The suspension of the current Chief Financial Officer and the debacle with regard to the State Information Technology Agency and Forensic Data Analyst contracts indeed do not bode well for the general effectiveness and performance of the police department, going forward,” he said. Beukman emphasised that drastic measures are needed to ensure that an unqualified audit is achieved in the current financial year. He said the committee is of the view that the understated irregular expenditure of R968 million is an indication that Cele must ensure that strict corporate and contract governance is restored within the SAPS environment. “The AG has highlighted the lack of proper financial controls and consequence management as the root causes of the current situation. The committee maintains that the implementation of the National Development Plan recommendations about the National Police Board and a merit-based appointment process for the top management of SAPS is the only long-term solution for dealing comprehensively with the challenges,” he said. Police management will appear for the committee next month regarding the AG’s report. The SAPS audit committee has also been invited to attend. Daily News