Durban - He matriculated from Star College with 12 As, but Dr. Kumeren Govender did not stop there. This year alone he graduated with two degrees, an MBChB cum laude in April and a Masters of Health Science in September, both from the University of KwaZulu. Govender was the only pilot student on a dual-track degree. He has been working at the New Somerset Hospital, Waterfront in Cape Town since the beginning of this year. A recipient of the prestigious Rhodes Scholarship, Govender will head to the University of Oxford in the United Kingdom to read his DPhil/PhD. He has also been awarded the Abe Bailey Scholarship for upcoming leaders in the world and will spend time at the University of Cambridge and Edinburgh. He further went on to study medicine at the Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine, UKZN where he also joined the Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA) under the mentorship of world-renowned and A-rated scientists Professor Salim and Quarraisha Abdool Karim. He was nominated among UKZN’s Top 40 most inspiring students in 2015 and was recognized as one of the Top 200 Young South Africans in 2017 by the Mail & Guardian newspaper. Dr. Govender is an avid cultural activist and frequently gives talks on culture, society, and music. He is a classical vocalist, and plays the harmonium, keyboard, and tabla and has a special interest on the violin, of which he has travelled to Germany to play in a concert. He also swims the Midmar Mile. Living a balanced life, he loves to socialize with others and skydive or travel on spontaneous road trips. Dr. Govender thanks his parents and grandparents for their support over the years. He will focus his DPhil on Artificial intelligence, big data and genetics and hopes to bridge knowledge from developed worlds to developing worlds and contribute to pioneering innovative and interdisciplinary solutions that are globally relevant to ultimately improve the lives of those burdened by disease. The aim of this is to use big data from healthcare systems or genomic data to solve complex healthcare threats including patterns of diseases such as the emergence antibiotic resistance, which is predicted to be the number one cause of death by 2050. Daily News