Durban - RID your children of depression, misery, addictions, and negative behavioral choices in future, by teaching them of purpose, connection, acknowledgment and a healthy sense of independence. According to  Director and Co-founder of Step Up Education Centres, Cindy Glass, it is important to teach these valuable life skills to children, from a very young age, and within a home environment. "The teaching of responsibility within your home, and benefits of teaching a healthy sense of responsibility will help children believe that they are capable and worthy, engender feelings of achievement and upliftment,  increases independence, confidence and leadership skills. "It will also teach children the skills that they will need to live more successful adult lives. Encourages self-awareness, self-regulation, motivation, empathy, social skills and self-care." However, Glass added that it is important that responsibilities within the home need to be age appropriate. "Younger children can be tasked with helping to make their own beds, putting dirty clothes in the wash-basket, packing away toys, brushing their own teeth and hair and other simple-to-do tasks. "Older children and teenagers can and should make their own beds and keep their personal space in order. In addition, they can be tasked with helping with cooking, washing dishes, making their own school lunches and doing their own homework.” Glass said, that there is a fine line between insisting, nagging and fighting with your children to become more responsible and helping them to embrace the process of learning from the experiences of becoming more responsible within their homes. "Don’t expect or insist upon perfection as mistakes are inevitable and are excellent opportunities for learning and problem-solving. However, do not allow excuses and teach your children to own their choices and actions. " Glass encouraged parents to praise, acknowledge, express appreciation and encourage, set boundaries with consequences that you stick to and set the example of what it is you wish your children to become. "They are most likely going to do what you do and not always what you say. “It is so important to remember that, as parents, you are your child’s first and longest-lasting teacher. Make it count by embracing the need for independence and responsibility. Start within your home. It will not always be easy, but with perseverance, lots of positive encouragement and appreciation, the results will be well worth it," she said. POST