Naicker started The White Canvas in August last year, and the beginner painting classes have grown steadily. Her painting journey began in June last year when she wanted to express her creativity. “I am an accountant where everything is done by the book, and I wanted to do something that gave me freedom to express myself.” So she took up a painting course. “When I was first exposed to beginner painting I had no confidence that I could create anything that resembled what was being taught. I attended the session nonetheless, but sitting in front of a blank canvas left me feeling vulnerable. It took me the longest while to take that paintbrush to the canvas.” This, she said, unleashed a creative spirit that she believes was suppressed all along. “I am by no means an artist, but I found a tool that brought about a consciousness for the finer details around me, details that I’ve never taken note of before such as nature, colours, shadows, and architecture. This form of exposure to art allowed me a freedom and peace that is difficult to put into words. The only way I could express it was to paint more and more.” Painting reached a new level as she decided to share her love of painting with others. “I reached a point where I couldn’t contain what I was experiencing and could only share it Painting is special because you don’t know what the outcome will be, but it will be a reflection of you as an individual.” The White Canvas was born. “I am longing to share the little that I know and see the awe in the face of a first time painter who has shocked themselves at the creation they see in front of them after only moments earlier claiming that they were useless at painting,” she said. The classes offer step by step guidance for beginners, in creating works the painter can take home. “We operate from our Bellair studio, or at your venue for team building, parties, socials, fundraisers and showers. “I love seeing the joy in people’s faces at having created something of their own.” THE INDEPENDENT ON SATURDAY