MEC for Finance Belinda Scott said there was nothing wrong with the current procurement system “but it is people who demand tenders who are wrong”. Scott said the province would provide education to municipalities about the tendering processes. “Ours is to keep educating municipalities so that they know the processes they must follow,” she said. Scott said the breaking of the law would not be tolerated. Premier Willies Mchunu, who tabled the report at the provincial legislature this week, indicated that political parties, business, civil society, traditional leaders, academics and departments of government at local, provincial and national level would be engaged. The premier’s spokesperson, Thami Ngidi, said: “The Moerane Commission report did not make any finding or recommendation on the country’s procurement system. “It calls on government and political parties and all citizens to institute internal discipline to inculcate negotiations and conflict resolution, but also to assist in the identification, arrest and prosecution of anyone who breaks the law that may lead to murder.” According to the report, parties such as the ANC, its alliance partner, the SACP, the IFP and the National Freedom Party called for the tender procurement system to be reviewed. The NFP said the system should be revised, while the SACP believed it was open to manipulation. In its concessions in the report, the ANC agreed with the SACP that, “there should be an open tender system or a board for transparency”. The SA Local Government Association said: “There should be proper document management in local government to curb corruption and manipulation of tender processes.” The report also contained the testimony of ANC activist Thabiso Zulu, who told the commission the killing of former ANC Youth League secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa had been triggered by his stand against corruption stemming from tender irregularities in Umzimkhulu. Mchunu said the report would be handed to the president and relevant structures for implementation. SUNDAY TRIBUNE