Farmer Dhir Roy Singh, 68, and his 64-year-old partner, Kallawathie Beekarie, were found dead in their bathroom by security officers from Reaction Unit South Africa on September 3. Singh sustained stab wounds to the neck, while Beekarie was found face down in the bathtub with her hands tied behind her back. It is believed she was strangled. The suspects fled the home with the couple’s TV and Toyota Conquest car. Verulam detectives and crime intelligence officers searched various areas including Cottonlands, Inanda and Ndwedwe for the suspects and made a breakthrough last week. Five men were arrested and stolen property, including cellphones, a motor vehicle and various household items were seized from them, said police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker. The suspects, aged between 18 and 30, appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Thursday for a bail application. They were charged with murder and robbery. Singh’s son-in-law Nish Ishwarlall said the murders had devastated his family, but the swift work by police had brought them some hope of getting justice. “These last few weeks have been very difficult and challenging for us. We are still trying to figure out why these men killed our family members. They were defenceless and fragile; why rob them of their lives? They played a vital role in the community as farmers and participated in religious and community work.” Ishwarlall said the family hoped the men received life imprisonment if convicted. “We intend on staging a protest outside court on Thursday, and we urge other farmers to stand with us. “These men should not be granted bail at all. These are young men who can find jobs. They are choosing crime as an easy way out.” Ishwarlall said he had newfound faith in the police. “They were proactive, and all credit goes to them for the arrests. They were professional, and compassionate to the family.” “I want to commend all those involved in the investigation as well as those responsible in apprehending the suspects,” he said. KwaZulu-Natal SAPS head Lieutenant-General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi said police would not rest “when people are killed in their own homes by greedy criminals”. POST