Durban - The two men convicted of killing Bluff money lender Narend Anandrai have been sentenced to life imprisonment at the Durban High Court today.   Ex-policeman Dhanaseelan Manickam, 47, and businessman Rajendran “Trevor” Chetty, 48, were found to have premeditated the murder of Anandrai and acted in common purpose. Their co-accused, Veronica Rathilal, 48, Chatsworth attorney Jayshree Baijnath, 43, and businesswoman Shana Mangroo, 48, were each acquitted. Charges against Claude Reginald and Sudesh Ghooruhoo were earlier withdrawn. The accused were implicated after self-confessed hitman Gregory Pillay pleaded guilty to shooting Anandrai, who was seated in his Mercedes-Benz sports car in Havenside, Chatsworth, on March 18, 2014. The car burst into flames after hitting a wall. He was convicted to 18 years imprisonment and turned State witness. Judge Peter Olsen said while he found Pillay to be an honest witness, he had to exercise caution as he was a single witness. Olsen labelled Anandrai's murder as a "contract killing", and referred to the Criminal Law Amendment Act, which rendered a sentence of life imprisonment, "compulsory" unless there are substantial and compelling circumstances to justify a lesser sentence. While Manickum and Chetty's council both requested the court to deviate from the minimum sentence on the basis that both accused contributed to society, were family men, had dependents and were first time offenders, Judge Olsen found those factors were not "unusual" and were always used when someone was convicted of a crime. "The crime was committed in the prime of their lives. They had all of the experience to turn their face away from criminal activity and the direction not to do so. They cannot now ask to be treated leniently." Olsen also found that the State had failed to prove the motive of the killing. "There has been debate that there was some measure of altruism." He referred to a previous case of contract killing, where the judge referred to the crime as a "cold blooded act" of which there could be no justification and was fast becoming a scourge in the country. Judge Olsen said both Chetty and Manickum did not show remorse whereas Pillay was "clearly remorseful". He added that it was not of his view that a person, who hires should get the same sentence as the person who "pulls the trigger". "Pillay was threatened with dire consequences. The accused took advantage of his status as a drug addict and might have been easily persuaded." Olsen subsequently sentenced both men to life imprisonment. Advocate Deen Govender, the legal representative for Manickum, requested leave to appeal for sentence and conviction. Meanwhile, outside court the families of the accused wept in disbelief. The Post