Durban - Eligible voters living in the Msunduzi and Nongoma municipalities will this weekend make their way to register for the upcoming municipal by-elections which are set to take place in November. The Independent Electoral Commission said voting stations in both areas will be opened on Saturday and Sunday from 8am to 5pm for voter registration and for those already on the voter roll, to check their details and provide updates were necessary. Voters are urged to bring along their IDs – either a green barcoded ID book, a smartcard ID, or a valid Temporary ID Certificate. They will also need to complete their physical home address on registration or provide sufficient particularities of their place of residence. Documented proof of address (e.g. a municipal account) is not required. Voters may also check and update their details at their local (municipal) Electoral Commission (IEC) office weekdays during office hours. Voters are reminded that it is a criminal offence to register and vote in a ward in which they are not ordinarily resident. Special voting will take place at voting stations as well as through home visits on November 6 between 8am and 5pm. Voters wishing to apply to cast a special vote can apply at their local IEC office during office hours between October 22 and 26. Voters can also apply for special votes via cellphone by SMSing their identity number to 32249 (Charged at R1). The SMS application facility is only available for those applying to cast a special vote at their voting station and NOT for home visits. By-elections in KZN will be held in the following wards: Ward 9 in Msunduzi Municipality – KZN225 with 8 370 registered voters which became vacant as a result of the death of councillor. Registration and voting will take place at the following stations: Ward 20 in Nongoma Municipality – KZN265 with 4 337 registered voters which became vacant as a result of the termination of councillor membership from the party. Registration and voting will take place at the following stations:  Applications for special votes can also be made online via the IEC’s website, www.elections.org.za. Once voters have applied online they will receive an SMS notifying them of the outcome when their application has been processed. They can also check the status of their special vote application online at www.elections.org.za. Daily News