He said the community had moved away from the ANC in recent years and pleaded with them to “bring back the love you once had for the ANC”. “We built a non-racial and non-sexist country. Over the years, we started seeing non-racism become weaker and weaker and we also see fewer and fewer supporters of colour at our events. “We went through our processes and decided we needed to renew and unite the party. We came to a resolution. We needed to go back to the values of the founders of the party, which is integrity, truthfulness and honesty. We stand against corruption and will rid the ANC of corrupt people and activity. He said the ANC wanted to prove to people that it was not running away from anything, and that it would be more cohesive and united. “Sometimes we are so focused on one thing, we forget about the bigger picture. Now we want the love that residents once had for us to return.” Ramaphosa had planned to meet the Chatsworth community in July after a spate of violent crime made headlines, but was unable to do so due to other commitments. He apologised, adding that it would not be his last visit. “I will be back in the next few months. I will continue to come to Chatsworth every few months and work together with the residents, hear your complaints and see how we can tackle issues.” Ramaphosa touched on racism, housing shortages and increasing unemployment. He said action must be taken against those found guilty of using derogatory and hurtful words, including c*****s. Ramaphosa was responding to a question posed by a concerned resident on the alleged use of the word by a senior eThekwini official when referring to Indians. “We need to act against those who use the word. We must act seriously and vehemently,” the president said. “We need to obliterate these terms, those prejudices in our country and action must be taken against those who use derogatory terms like those because it is hateful and not welcomed.” Among those who braved Saturday’s thunderstorm to see Ramaphosa was 5-year-old Karusha Gounden, who handed a note to him. A beaming Ramaphosa bundled the Grade R pupil in his arms on stage and read the contents of her note. “Dear Mr President (to which Ramaphosa said “that’s me”), Nkosi Sikelel’ iAfrika, I love you. You are the best president. From Karusha.” When he was done, he said: “This is from this little girl and I’m taking her home with me.” The crowd erupted in cheers and applause. Before Karusha left, she had a request for Ramaphosa: “I saw you on TV and you like to walk. Please may you come one day and walk with me, while I ride my bicycle?” Ramaphosa broke out in a smile. She continued to tell him to “make South Africa the best country in the world”. Memorandums, including one from those who oppose a recently established bingo hall in Chatsworth, were handed to Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay, who assured attendees he would hand it over to Ramaphosa. POST