Durban - Following on its initiative of Take A Girl Child to Work, Cell C announced this week that its new project CellCgirl will connect young women and give them greater opportunities to excel. CellCgirl, an online platform, aims to connect young women aged between 14 and 24, and will help them access educational resources as well as economic and employment opportunities. It will consists of a self-service, digital portal (website) and is driven by social media platforms Instagram, Facebook and Twitter. It takes a 360-degree approach with practical resources that support a girl’s personal journey to navigate through school and life and prepare her for future success.CellCgirl is championed by a number of high level influencers including actress and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ambassador Nomzamo Mbatha. Others are Asnath Mahapa, the first African woman commercial pilot in SA; Phuti Mahanyele-Dabengwa, executive chairperson of Sigma Capital, as well as Miss South Africa 2018 Tamaryn Green and Miss World South Africa 2018 Thulisa Keyi. Suzette van der Merwe, Managing Executive, Cell C CSI: “Statistically girls are more vulnerable to circumstances that can be a barrier to their education and their future. Every day girls are faced with difficult challenges and are exposed to hardships that could make finishing school and successfully navigating through the working world more difficult. “Helping girls complete their education, accumulate skills that are relevant to the job market and start an independent livelihood are critical and aligned to Government’s agenda and global objectives to accelerate the advancement of women and create gender-based transformation. CellCgirl addresses three main categories - study, life and inspiration. The study section is where girls find not only motivation to study, but links to resources that help them study more effectively, understand their subjects better and prepare for their exams in a less stressful way. There are also helpful tools on the site with links to available internships and bursaries that the girls can apply for online. Girls can also download guides, applications, exam papers and more in the Downloads section. The website also has a tool which will allow girls to create their own CV in a simple and effective manner. There’s also a locator tool to help girls find the nearest library, school, college or university. The life section offers advice and guidance on just about anything girls might be struggling with, such as time management, friendships, relationships, trends and social media. Another feature is the Ask CellCgirl section, which is for when girls just want to speak to someone for advice. The inspiration section is all about inspiring girls to dream bigger through positive examples of people who never let gender stereotypes or challenges stop them from going after their dreams. DAILY NEWS