Durban - Police are still searching for the suspects who killed an 82-year-old man and left his wife critically injured in their Tongaat home on Saturday. According to KZN police spokesman Captain Nqobile Gwala, at around 4 pm two unknown suspects entered the couple's home in Chelmsford Heights and demanded money. Gwala said they took cash and stabbed the 82-year-old man who died at the scene. "The wife was also stabbed but she was taken to a hospital." Gwala said charges of house robbery, murder and attempted murder were being investigated by Tongaat SAPS. According to Prem Balram, director of Reaction Unit South Africa's, their  Tongaat Operations Centre received a call from a frantic female requesting assistance at her neighbours home. "Upon arrival paramedics found the elderly male victim lying on the floor in one of the bedrooms. His arms were tied behind his back. He was fatally injured and died at the scene after he was repeatedly assaulted with a pipe or knobkierie on his head," said Balram. Balram said the man's 77-year-old wife was also seriously injured. "She sustained multiple lacerations to her hands, an injury to her head and a ruptured eye. She was treated on scene before being transported to a hospital by ambulance. According to Balram, the man had opened his gate after he noticed a female standing at his driveway gate, and that's when he was accosted two men who were armed with knives and a knobkierie. "His wife who was asleep at the time awoke when she heard her husband screaming for help. She went to his aid and was also assaulted by the two men who tied up the elderly couple and forced them into one of the bedrooms." Balram said the suspects then ransacked the home and stole an undisclosed amount of cash and jewellery before they fled. The female victim managed to remove her restraints and called out for help. A week ago Cottonlands couple Dhir 'Roy' Singh, 68, and his partner Kay Singh, 60, were found in the bathroom. Kay was found lying face down in the bathtub with her hands tied behind her back. Singh was found on the floor of the bathroom with stab wounds to his neck. Daily News 