Durban - Two suspected robbers were killed in a shootout on the N2, near Nyoni on the KwaZulu-Natal north coast. It is believed that the men were wanted on a number of armed robbery cases in KwaZulu-Natal. Today, officers from various policing units, conducted an operation along the highway.  According to police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, the officers spotted the vehicle and tried to get the men to stop. “As police officers attempted to pull over the vehicle, the two occupants allegedly opened at police, damaging a police vehicle in the process. The two suspects were fatally wounded during the shootout with police officers,” Naicker said. He added that two unlicensed firearms were seized from the suspect’s vehicle.  Acting Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi has commended the bravery of a group of police officers involved in today’s operation. He said despite being attacked by these armed suspects, police officers fought back. “Criminals must know that police officers will always defend themselves and members of the community when they are attacked. We will not be intimidated by these criminals and we will continue with our plans aimed at reigning in wanted armed robbers in this province,” he said. Today’s shooting comes just days after a gang of armed men were killed during an exchange of gunfire with police. It is alleged that the men were part of a gang who were about to commit a robbery but their plans were thwarted by police. The shooting took place on the N2, near Mandeni, also north of Durban. KZN police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane, said the police officers received a tip off about the gang’s robbery plans. “Various police units responded to the intelligence received. Officers spotted the BMW that the men were in and attempted to stop it. The occupants fired shots at the police officers, who fired back,” he said. Zwane added that three men were killed in the shootout. He added that no police officers were injured. It is believed the men were wanted for a spate of armed robberies and home invasions in the province. Daily News