Durban - There was not a dry eye at Faith Revival Ministeries during the funeral service of a mother and her two daughters, who were murdered in their Phoenix home just over a week ago. Jane Govindasamy, 45 and her daughters, Denisha, 22, and Rackelle, 16, were found dead inside their two-bedroom Tasvir Mansions flat in Longcroft, Phoenix, on September 21. The suspect, a man known to the family, is in police custody and is expected to make his second court appearance in the Verulam Magistrate's Court on Wednesday. Pupils and teachers from Rydale Park Secondary, the school Rackelle attended, stood outside the church with roses in their hands - many of them sobbing. Denisha's fiancé Macaelin Padayachee, who had shared an emotional message upon the death of the trio, was dressed in a black suit and was comforted by family as he went view the bodies. Jane Govindasamy's sister Annie paid an emotional tribute to her. She said Jane was a person who always uplifted her family. “My sister was a very humble, loving person who gave priority to her family. During her short stay in this world, she touched many hearts in the wider community. She shared a very good relationship with her neighbours, she never cared much for luxuries in her life, but rather worked tirelessly to uplift herself and her family,” she said. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Rackelle's teacher Miss Rajkoomar paid tribute to the youngest of the daughters, describing her as a quiet, respectful pupil. “Indeed it was very difficult to mark the register and to find that her desk was now empty. She loved unicorns and her favourite colour was purple, moreover, she was a very creative individual who loved to draw things,” she said. Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay passed his condolences to the family and said every effort will be made to get justice for the murders. MP Omie Singh said communities needed to start living for one another because living in isolation made the community weaker.  POST