Durban -  The University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) and the AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF) will join forces in Pietermaritzburg to host the Silent Protest on Thursday, as an act of embodied resistance and lament for the lives damaged or lost to gender-based violence. The objective they said is to demonstrate the silencing and stigma that continues to surround sexual violence, and collectively resist the dehumanizing effects of gender-based violence through solidarity. Gender-based violence has been highlighted as one of the key drivers in new HIV infections and as the largest non-profit HIV service provider in the world, with 968,293 patients in care in 41 countries according to AIDS Healthcare Foundation. “This will be the fifth year this protest is being held in KZN,” says Larissa Klazinga, AHF Regional Policy and Advocacy Manager. She said the foundation is focusing on youth through our Girls Act empowerment programme in schools and the Silent Protest at universities,  because young women and girls are 8 times more likely to become HIV than young men and boys. "This is due to gender inequality and high rates of violence. We need to create spaces where youth can confront rape culture and toxic masculinity, and access the health care and psychosocial services they need.” Professor Charlene van der Walt of the UKZN Religion and Theology Department, explained the universities involvement, “In the light of the pervasive, systemic and life-denying nature of gender-based violence, we approached AHF to co-host this protest. It offers participants the opportunity to commit themselves to a day of silent embodied resistance against the silencing and dehumanizing effects of rape sexual assault, domestic violence and street harassment." Silent protesters have their mouths taped shut, embodying, offering a visual image of and challenging the silence surrounding, rape, and sexual violence. The protest is a form of embodied resistance against the effects of rape and sexual violence as it is an issue that affects us all and cuts across race, gender, class, sexual orientation, culture and religious affiliations.” Additional information about how to join the protest and the programme for the day is available via Facebook @Religion-and-Theology-UKZN-Pietermaritzburg and @aidshealth.org. DAILY NEWS