Durban - In a move to educate, empower and offer help to women in need, an education specialist and holistic counselor has launched her first book, Notes on my Fridge.Sarisha Rameshlall Komal, of Merebank, now living in Dubai, described the book as a collection of untold stories. “Notes on my Fridge is a non-fiction book, which is a collection of real lived experiences shared by females whom I’ve met and counseled over the years. It also includes my own experiences,” she said. “It addresses issues, challenges and emotional accomplishments that women and people, in general, are not comfortable speaking about in the open, specific issues of loneliness, lack of self-love and low self-esteem. “My book is but one avenue for women to be heard. It also affords them an opportunity for self-reflection and self-correction and is a signal to know that it is okay to give expression to one’s vulnerability and challenges. Ultimately, Notes on my Fridge is about the indomitable spirit of females.” The 45-year-old, who is working on her PhD in education, said her passion for writing was unleashed by her mother, Maya. “I was raised in a home where my mother made me write, initially because of my poor handwriting as a child, and it soon became a routine to keep a journal. “I found that creative writing became an amazing opportunity to vent and express my emotions as a teenager. Later with young adult dramas, writing was my escape. I fell in love with my words and gained confidence each time I read aloud whatever I wrote to my parents.” While her husband and parents are her biggest supporters, her two fur babies, Maltese poodles Kushi and Chaand, whom she featured on the cover, are her pride and joy. She has already started on her second book. Notes on my Fridge can be purchased by emailing chakrasrk@yahoo.com WIN! WIN! WIN! Three lucky readers can win a copy of Notes on my Fridge by Sarisha Rameshlall Komal. To win SMS tagword POSTBook followed by your name and surname to 33258 (SMSes charged at R1.50). Competition ends 9am, September 18, 2018. Terms and conditions apply. Winners will be informed telephonically.