Durban - The recent crime statistics released this week showed an increase in incidents of rapes that were reported to police. 40,035 rapes were recorded for the  2017 and 2018 period. The previous year was 39 828 in the previous year. An average of 110 rapes were recorded by the police each day. In light of this,  HIV/AIDS non-profit organisation, Right to Care, has called on all who are raped or sexually assaulted to report the crime to police and to access healthcare services at the nearest healthcare facility as soon as possible. Right to Care spokesperson, Palesa Khambi, said most acts of gender-based violence are committed by men against women and that HIV incidence and new HIV infections are the highest in young women compared to men. Men however can also be raped, she said. "Consensual and non-consensual sex without condoms spreads HIV and sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and in women can lead to unintended pregnancies. If you have been raped or sexually assaulted, retain the evidence on your clothes and body and get to a police station as soon as possible.” After reporting the rape, said Khambi, the victim should go to the nearest clinic or health facility. She said healthcare staff will assist with HIV and STI testing, treatment including post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP), and they will help a female victim deal with pregnancy risk. Healthcare workers can also link the victim to ongoing care and support. “The Thuthuzela Care Centres located in provinces throughout South Africa have become a vital part of dealing with the aftermath of rape and sexual assault in South Africa. Their focus is on reducing secondary trauma for the victim, improving conviction rates and reducing the time for finalising cases. They operate in public hospitals in communities where the incidence of rape is high and they are also linked to the sexual offences courts which is a new South African anti-rape intervention.” At the police station, the victim has the right to be taken to a private room and a female officer can be requested. The police should provide information on accessing healthcare and counseling services. She added that clothes involved in the incident should not be thrown away. “There might be hair, blood, saliva or semen on your body or clothes that can be used as evidence to convict the rapist. Clothes should be wrapped in newspaper, not a plastic bag which damages the evidence. If you go to the toilet, keep the toilet paper because it is highly likely to contain evidence, allow it to dry and then put it in an envelope or paper bag – not a plastic bag." She said this evidence will help to better convict the rapist.