The dearth of major developments in KwaDukuza (Stanger) for more than three decades may have landed the area backwater status on KZN’s North Coast, which is now home to some of the province’s best business, leisure and residential complexes. So far it has cost billionaire businessman Vivian Reddy, the developer, R500 million to complete the 29000m² mall, with 80 stores and 900 parking bays. However, the opening was no shoo-in for Reddy and his company, Double Ring Trading (DRT), that handled the development. When the project was mooted nearly three years ago, and in the run- up to the opening, DRT was hounded by legal challenges from a local civic organisation, Concerned Citizens Group (CCG). The CCG took umbrage previously with Reddy’s acquisition of land from the KwaDukuza Municipality to build the mall. The CCG’s latest salvo was fired on Tuesday in the Durban High Court where the organisation attempted to block the mall’s Thursday opening, and claimed that DRT had not received an occupational certificate from the municipality. The presiding judge, Graham Lopes, adjourned the matter indefinitely after DRT’s representatives assured the court that the mall would not open until an occupational certificate was secured. After two days of subsequent inspections by municipal representatives, the certificate was issued and the mall was opened on Friday. “The place was packed. Many people thanked me for the high quality and variety of shops and I posed for a few hundred photos. “The overwhelming support from the people of KwaDukuza has warmed my heart,” said Reddy. A boon for locals, he said, was not having to pay toll fees when travelling to Ballito or uMhlanga for shopping. “There was not a negative word spoken about the architecture and design of the mall and many regarded it as ‘upper class’. Another positive was how well our toilets were received. We spent much on quality finishes. Often developers short-change communities on projects in smaller towns,” Reddy said. Best of all for the businessman was the future economic spin-offs the mall would bring to the municipality. “What excites me the most is that we were able invest in a town that hadn’t had major developments in 40 years. About 360 people, mostly locals, have now found employment. During the construction 1100 jobs were created and we used local suppliers.” Reddy said, as part of his commitment to the upliftment of the local community, he invested more than R45m in schools, sporting and civic projects in the area. About the opposition from the CCG, Reddy said as a seasoned businessman he had grown accustomed to such challenges. “The CCG didn’t succeed in court because their claims were a pack of lies and misinformation. Tuesday’s court action was a last kick from a dying horse.” He said the last-minute compliance issues related to the testing of the mall’s fire alarms. “I must compliment the municipality for doing thorough checks over the two days before certifying it. All our building plans were approved, including the roads. Everything was perfect. “At the end of the day it was all about integrity and not taking short cuts or having undue influence over people in power,” said Reddy. After building over R13bn worth of projects around the country, Reddy said he still had “more fire in the tank” to continue working. “Maybe I’ll retire after completing the two major projects I’m working on. One is a top-class R2bn residential development in the Sibiya Node. “Probably in three years I will consider taking it easy. I’ll set up a multimillion-rand trust fund solely for community upliftment projects. That’s the legacy I want to leave,” he said. The CCG was taking legal advice on the decision by the Municipality to give DRT temporary occupation on September 28 when 48 hours earlier it rejected the same application. Mayor of the KwaDukuza Municipality Ricardo Mthembu said he welcomed the opening. “We hope those who have negative opinions will change their minds. I appeal to everyone to be positive and support it. Now residents have choices on where to shop. Families will benefit through the jobs that have been created,” he said. Mthembu said he understood that there have been some in charge of the town for so long without competition. “Business people must realise this is a democratic country and everyone must come together”. Sunday Tribune