DURBAN - A LOTUS FM radio jock is still being investigated by the SABC after making remarks online that the deadly Kerala floods were the result of Karmic action following beef festivals in the region. Over 450 people have been killed in the floods, described as the worst to hit the southern Indian state since 1924. As bodies were being found in Kerala’s murky waters, Diresh Sinath, known on Lotus FM as DJ Dhoti, posted an image on Twitter, with the status “Kerala Floods. Beef + Festival = Karma. As you sow so shall you reap”. The image showed several people drowning in a pool of water, formed by the tears of a cow. Sinath is a member of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) which maintains that animals should not be slaughtered. Cows are especially worshipped by ISKCON members. Sinath’s post drew furore online, but replying to commentators, Sinath said the post had been misconstrued. It has since been removed but an August 23 Facebook post remains in which Sinath referred to karmic retribution for slaughtering cows. The SABC is now investigating the radio jock. Spokesperson Neo Momodu, said: “The SABC notes with concern the comments made by Sinath in his personal capacity. The station has distanced itself from the utterances. Sinath was immediately taken off the Lotus FM schedule on Friday pending an investigation into the matter.” ISKCON has also made a point to distance the organisation from Sinath’s post. On Facebook, the organisation stated: “The comments made by (Sinath) do not in any way represent the views of ISKCON. ISKCON is deeply concerned by the disaster that has unfolded and is working with ISKCON leaders in Kerala to provide further assistance to the ongoing relief efforts.” Sinath said he would not immediately comment to the Sunday Tribune as he was awaiting to hear about the outcome of the SABC investigation. His apology to the public on Twitter, read: “On deep reflection, I have realised how much I have offended people by my tweet. Although unintentional, it did cause offence and I am regretful, and offer my sincerest apologies to all.” AFP reports that around a million people in Kerala are still packed into temporary relief camps as their homes were destroyed in the flood, and recovery operations are underway. SUNDAY TRIBUNE