The two-floor bingo and entertainment centre, run by Goldrush Bingo Chatsworth, and located in the same building that had housed the casino more than a decade ago, has residents, councillors and community leaders up in arms. It's just steps away from an EasyPay office, which distributes South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) grants and pensions. When told about this on Tuesday, KZN Social Development MEC Weziwe Thusi said her department was opposed to having “a gambling point next to a pay-out point”. “It is our duty to protect the elderly. By having this temptation people can easily collect their grants and go across thinking they could possibly make more money,” Thusi told POST. “It’s our responsibility to look after the elderly; to ensure their money is kept with them, for whatever they require for that month.” Opponents of gambling have vowed to protest outside the centre as they believe that not only will cash-strapped residents gamble their pension and grant money away in the hope of hitting the jackpot, but crime, prostitution and other illegal activities will increase. They’re particularly angry because they have tried for years to prevent legal gambling in the township. In 2014, the community fought the proposed introduction of electronic bingo machines (EBM) in local malls. “Under no circumstances will we accept something like this. It was shot down the last time, we will shoot it down again,” said Eddie Govender, chairperson for the Silverglen Civic Association. “This will create havoc in schools and add to poverty in this community.” Ward councillor Tony Govender said he had realised the centre was opening when he saw work being done late at night. He said he was flabbergasted. “This idea was opposed in its totality. Four years ago we said in no uncertain terms we will not allow this thing in Chatsworth because we were aware of the social ills it could create. Now it is here, it will eat into this community. The poorest of the poor are being targeted here. And what’s even more shocking is it is directly opposite the Easy Pay. “Pensioners will be fleeced into going to the bingo thing. Crime, prostitution, pupils bunking schools and drugs amongst others will be on the rise. I cannot see this thing being controlled. We had the Golden Nugget here years ago. I remember what was happening. And now, we are going to again cause severe headache and more heartache in family circles.” Former ward councillor Brandon Pillay, the deputy chair of the People’s Forum, was so against the bingo proposals four years ago that he went to court to try to stop it. “The matter for the first plan is still in court. How is it that these guys are getting ready to open now?” he asked. “It was clear from the beginning that the residents here wanted nothing to do with these machines. I haven’t been aware of the construction, and I have been caught by surprise, but I will soon be calling for meetings and planning pickets outside the venue.” When POST visited the site on Monday, several curious residents tried to find out what it was about. Both the manager and regional manager of the centre declined to comment, but the company that owns it, Goldrush Gaming Group, said in a statement that a “legislative amendment” that allows the operation EBTs was recently passed, “which has settled the question of whether or not Goldrush Bingo Chatsworth can open and trade”. The company added: “Certain parties are continuing with aspects of the court case which we believe is wholly based on competition and protection of market share. Notwithstanding the fact that studies have shown that bingo has the lowest propensity for addiction and problem gambling, the Goldrush Gaming Group is a firm supporter of responsible gambling.” Goldrush said it had held the lease for the premises for over a decade. “In conclusion, the Goldrush Group subscribes to the principles of good corporate citizenship and community partnership. In line with that, Goldrush has already created more than 150 employment opportunities, invested over R90 million into the province and has dedicated specific CSI funding to causes related to the welfare of children, schools and the care of the elderly.” Goldrush said it was expecting to invest over R300m into the province and create an additional 1 000 jobs in the communities. Civic leader Teddy Govender, who represents all 17 districts in Chatsworth, said it was annoying the bingo hall was opening “without the consent of the community”. “Why are they only bringing these machines to so-called Indian areas? As it is, people have little money. They will turn to bingo to try and double their money and end up going home with nothing.” POST