Durban - Five people have arrested in connection with the murder of Cottonlands couple Dhir 'Roy' Singh, 68, and his partner Kay Singh, 63, police confirmed on Wednesday. Another suspected is expected to appear in court later this week linked to the alleged murder of a 66 year old farmer in Creighton, on September 8. The Acting Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi,  commended police and other security agencies who worked round the clock to make the arrest. On Tuesday, Detectives from Verulam together with Crime intelligence officers to conducted an intelligence-driven operation track down suspects allegedly linked to murder of the Singh couple. The couple had been found dead in their bathroom. Kay had been strangled and Roy sustained a single stab wound to the neck. The couple's home had been ransacked. Police nabbed the suspects in Inanda, Ndwedwe and Cottonlands. "A total of five men were arrested by police officers. Stolen property including cellphones and a motor vehicle as well as various household items were seized from the arrested men," said Naicker. The suspects, aged between 18 and 30, are expected to make their first appearance at the Verulam Magistrate's Court on Friday charged with robbery and murder. On Tuesday, Creighton and Ixopo police arrested a 30-year-old suspect at a homestead. He is allegedly linked to the murder of a Peter Scott at his home in Lyn Avis Farm in Creighton. According to police three armed males accosted Scott and his wife and shot him dead. They tied his wife and suspects stole laptops and cellphones as well as other items from the house before fleeing the scene Naicker said the suspect was found at his homestead with a firearm and six rounds of ammunition, as well as property stolen from the victims home including their cellphones. He has been charged for murder and robbery and is expected to appear in court. "The firearm that was seized had its serial number filed off however it will be subjected to ballistic tests to determine if it was used during the robbery and murder," said police spokesperson Brigadier Jay Naicker. Naicker said police are still on the hunt for the remaining suspects. Daily News