Durban - Ambulance operators in Durban have welcomed the Department of Health's decision to regulate the industry. Last week, the Department of Health issued a statement saying emergency medical services, have until the end of November to submit applications for a licence to operate in the province or face jail time if operating illegally. The licence will permit the operator to work only within a specific health district, and will be valid for a year and reviewed annually. Speaking to Daily News, three ambulance operators in the KZN region have welcomed the decision. Prem Balram, director of Reaction Unit SA, which services mostly the KZN North Coast, said that there were many "fly by night" operators that were costing people their lives. "In my area there are a number of ambulance services popping up like mushrooms. They borrow equipment when they are being inspected, but when they actually arrive at a scene of an accident they do not have the necessary equipment to deal with injured people. " Balram said so many operators don't even have sirens or lights that actually show they are ambulance operators. "The traffic can be hectic following an accident and this hampers getting the injured to hospital. In many cases there are secondary accidents involving the ambulances because they do not have the correct signage." Echoing similar sentiments was Rescue Care's Garrith Jamieson who cited it as a "good move" by the Department. "This move will root out fly-by -night operators. There are far too many operators who aren't medically qualified. Anyone does what they want," said Jamieson, an operations director. "By implementing this, patient care can only get better. And those legit companies currently operating, will remain." Kyle Van Reenen, general manager of Crisis Medical, said they welcomed the move with open arms. "'It's long overdue, and it is an industry that needs regulation desperately. "Quality of care given by service providers can only get better and it is only going to benefit patients which is what we are here for." DAILY NEWS