Doctors ran tests but were unable to determine the real cause behind the sudden kidney failure at the age of just 41. In 2015, Pillay’s sister donated one of her kidneys to him. Now he wants to help others get the medical assistance they need at the AlphaMed Dialysis Centre in Chatsworth. Pillay, who runs the emergency department at Parklands Hospital, took over the Chatsworth centre four months ago. The chief executive said it’s a first-of-its-kind in the township and, unlike others, had a doctor on site around the clock. The need for a such a specialised facility, added Pillay, was imperative as one in three Indians suffer with hypertension or diabetes, which, if not managed properly, leads to chronic kidney disease. He said the signs of kidney failure were often similar to that of other conditions - until the kidney lost 80% of its function. “This is when the disease really shows itself,” he said. “Chronic kidney disease is when there is a gradual decrease in the function of the kidney. “As the disease progresses, your body releases high levels of electrolytes and access water and toxins, so you need something to artificially infiltrate the blood. That’s when the need for dialysis comes in.” Asked if dialysis assisted in restoring the kidneys’ strength, he said it was not “curative”. “The dialysis machine is an artificial filter that basically works as a replacement to your kidney and takes over its function.” Transplant was a more permanent solution, he said, but a very few patients are either able to afford it or have donors. “Those with kidney failure have to depend on dialysis normally two or three times a week.” He indicated that the main purpose for the facility was to “take some of the burden off state hospitals”. “The state cannot afford the influx of patients needing help and we want to take some of the burden off the state. “There are patients at RK Khan Hospital and other state hospitals that wait for months for dialysis. Many of them are dying and some have already. “We are hence trying to engage with non-profit organisations to try to support us in helping patients who can’t afford private healthcare.” Pillay also mentioned: “The daycare hospital will be for patients, who are able to come in the morning, be treated and discharged thereafter. “Procedures such as endoscopies and colonoscopies can be done. We’d like to encourage patients to visit the centre and to look at our ethos. A doctor is always available and we are different. Other centres are completely nurse run. If there is a problem with the patient, doctors are on site to help. The waiting period is cut down.” eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede and her deputy Fawzia Peer were among the guests at the launch. POST