Durban - A Johannesburg entrepreneur, the founder of the PrincessD menstrual cup, won the Woman of Stature Entrepreneur of the Year 2018 award for dedicated work in changing the lives of schoolgirls. Having worked with impoverished communities for over a decade, 54-year-old Shamila Ramjawan’s project, Keeping Girls in School, has given new hope to young women who often skip school once a month as they cannot afford sanitary pads. Humbled by the recognition, the former Pietermaritzburg resident said she would continue to empower and uplift communities. “I am a transformational leader as I strongly believe in change. In our lives we have to provide room for growth and development, and that comes with changing and evolving with time,” she said. Ramjawan spent two years researching menstrual cups, which have been in existence since the 1930s. “I felt it was time to create my own brand and introduce it to the market. "In early 2016, I launched the PrincessD menstrual cup, which was named after my daughter, Daksha. I used to call her Princess D. “At first my focus was on rural and impoverished areas, but after launching the product, I realised it was an essential product for girls and women everywhere.” The menstrual cup is a cost-effective, eco-friendly, hygienic and sustainable solution and is available in 50 pharmacies in South Africa, she said There are retailers, resellers and NGOs in Tanzania, Botswana, Ghana, Namibia, Swaziland, Mozambique, Uganda and the Philippines. The cup, she said, is unique: the only silicone version of its kind in Africa which is microwaveable. After working in the corporate world for two decades, Ramjawan decided to start her own business, Famram Solutions and the Famram Foundation. “In 1998 my husband, a detective sergeant in the police force, suddenly passed away and I had the daunting task of being a single parent with the responsibility of raising two children. “Having worked at a major manufacturing company, in 2002 I was offered a promotion and relocation to Johannesburg, which I opted for because I felt the change would do me good. I must add that I have never looked back.” Ramjawan, who was employed in the marketing and communications industry, said she acquired vast experience and knowledge in her field. “Once I left the corporate world, I decided to start my own business. I initially had no investors, but I am proud to say that South African Olympic gold medallist Caster Semenya is now the co-owner, investor and brand ambassador,” she said. “We share the same vision and that is to make a global impact. We engage with corporates and government to invest in girls, as health and hygiene should be a priority from their social investment budgets.” Ramjawan said she led her life in a manner that would be a solution to humanity’s problems. “It is my calling to give back and give hope to the impoverished and disadvantaged communities globally.” She launched her Facebook page, Motivational Quotes by Shamila Ramjawan, in May 2016 and now has more than 30000 followers. She does have some advice for budding women entrepreneurs: “To grow yourself, you need patience because we deal with different calibres of people throughout our careers. "Always remember that women and girls are strong. We can overcome anything. Never give up. Take calculated risks and get rid of the fear of failure. Hard work eventually pays off.” Ramjawan is scheduled to receive another global award from the Women Economic Forum (WEF) in the category “Iconic Woman Creating a Better World for All” on April 29 in New Delhi, India. POST