Opinion - Vicki Momberg made history last week - but for all the wrong reasons. When magistrate Pravina Raghoonandan convicted and sentenced her to an effective two-year jail sentence for her inflammatory and blatantly racist rant against a police officer, the 49-year-old former estate agent became the first South African to be put behind bars for crimen injuria. It is not a distinction any citizen of this country should be proud of, given our painful history under apartheid and colonialism over many decades when people of colour were relegated to second-class citizenship and denied the most basic of human rights simply because of the colour of their skin. Most South Africans agree Momberg was correctly convicted. She was apparently the victim of a smash-and-grab incident in 2016 but when police attending the scene approached her, she unleashed a tirade of racial abuse, in which she used the k-word no fewer than 48 times to refer to a black officer. Such behaviour is inexcusable and cannot be condoned whatever the circumstances. Even more disturbing was the manner in which Momberg behaved after being charged. She showed little if any remorse; antagonised her legal advisers; and lost the faith of a social worker assigned to compile a report in mitigation of sentence. What has, however, become a subject of intense debate is the precedent-setting jail sentence imposed by the magistrate. While many have welcomed the sentence as a crucial victory against racism, others say it does not go far enough. There are also those who argue the sentence is disproportionate to the crime. The mixed reaction is understandable and probably symptomatic of the deep divisions that continue to prevail in a society still struggling to free itself from its racist past. Momberg has indicated she will appeal the verdict, which is her right. Whatever the outcome of her appeal, we as South Africans need to reflect on this case and ask ourselves some serious questions. We must not pretend that after 24 years of democracy, we have overcome all our problems over race and colour. The truth is that we have a long way to go. Racism still runs deep in all communities. We still talk about each other in racial terms - “us and them”, “those people”, “that nation” and so on. It’s time we started thinking about each other as South Africans - whatever our colour, race, ethnicity, religion or political affiliation. POST