Durban - After more than three years of dating, former Durban actor and comedian Eubulus Tracy married his sweetheart in Cape Town on Saturday. Tracy is best known for his comedic roles in Curry on Laughing, Keeping up with the Koopasamys and Aunty Rumba Goes to Bollywood featuring television and stage personality Jailoshini Naidoo. Naidoo was his maid of honour. Tracy married Juan-Loui Venter in an intimate traditional white wedding among 40 friends and family. Guests included former TV and radio personality and now restaurateur Prim Reddy. Themed #OneLifeOneLove, in celebration of their commitment for life, the couple opted for an elegant yet masculine set up. “We chose a navy and white colour palate but included indigenous proteas, which added a softer blush pink accent,” said Tracy. “The decor was fresh and minimalist with a backdrop of the enchanting ocean and majestic mountain. "When we started planning our wedding in February last year we knew we wanted a scenic venue, so the hotel we chose (Twelve Apostles Hotel & Spa in Camps Bay) came up trumps.” The couple relocated to Cape Town from Johannesburg earlier this year to start a business in the food and beverage industry and have since opened a coffee shop and café in Stellenbosch. Tracy said he and Venter had worked in the same business park in Johannesburg and often crossed paths. After leaving Durban to explore a career in corporate communications, Tracy initially worked at an engineering company as a communications specialist and thereafter as the global marketing and communications manager at a mining services company. Venter was an operations manager in the hospitality industry. “We would often cross paths and started greeting each other, which led to random conversations and he eventually asked for my number. We began texting and later met for coffee. “Two years later (in 2016), after returning home from working in Zanzibar for a few months, he surprised me by proposing. "He said he never wanted us to be apart again, so he staked his claim with a diamond ring at my birthday party in November that year. "He even went down on one knee with his parents at his side for moral support.” Said Tracy: “I was overcome with emotion.” He described his husband as “authentic”. “What you see is what you get. He is God-fearing, selfless, adventurous, warm spirited and a man of integrity. "Our personal values are aligned. We value integrity, authenticity, spirituality and unconditional love. "Our only challenge has been misguided prejudice and religious intolerance from a small sector of society. "However, we deal with it by committing it to prayer and just letting it go.” He said they are considering raising a child together. “It is 2018. The possibilities are endless and the family unit is rapidly evolving and including blended families and gay parents. We will see what God has planned for us along the way.” The couple, who enjoy travelling, intend on honeymooning in Portugal and Spain in September. POST