Durban - Thick beams of wood lay blackened and charred on the floor of what were once the homes of three Merebank families. A week since the blaze on the upper residential level of the Merebank Shopping Mall, the devastated families, along with three others who had to flee their homes, are trying to pick up the pieces. “My daughter Fatima lost all of her belongings in the fire. If you look at the ashes in the flat you can see it all there. She is a single parent and she worked hard for everything in her home and, just like that, she lost everything,” said Sarah Ismail. “There is nothing left. The fire didn’t even give us a chance.” The 60-year-old, who lives in another flat in the same building, said since the fire her family have been moved to another vacant flat, but it was not the same. “We miss our home. Today, my granddaughter, who is in matric, went to the home and came back crying after looking at the damage. “We are slowly trying to sort things out and see how we can pick up the pieces.” Ismail, who has been living in the building for 15 years, said although they have been left devastated, the community of Merebank had rallied around them. “Even the bakery and meat store below have been sending us food and doing whatever they can to assist us.” Another resident said she and her daughters had been “working like men” moving things from their home into another flat. “Although our house wasn’t charred the way the other homes were, we have also been moved to another flat. My kids and I have been moving couches, beds and other heavy items. "The work never comes to an end. We have painters and plumbers here working in the homes and we are also trying to pick up the pieces. My 17-year-old daughter, who is in matric, lost her uniforms and her books have turned black with the smoke. “Unfortunately, she could not make it to school because she does not have a uniform. She had tests and assignments due but we don’t know what we are going to do. The school may even ask us to pay for those damaged books.” Sharin Rajman of the organisation Helping Hands said it had been busy collecting essential items for the affected families. “We always help the communities and this time we decided to step in and start a collection. These families don’t have anything and we are doing our best to get them the items they need. “It’s great to see the community come out and rally together to help these families.” According to the Durban Fire Department, the fire was confined to three flats. “We suspect the fire started at the middle flat and spread to either side. Due to the intensity of the fire we can’t determine the cause,” said division commander Nkulumo Dube. POST