There were times when he couldn’t understand the system that barred him from entering the Durban County Club clubhouse in 1963 after winning the Natal Open and receiving his prize in the rain. The humiliation of not being allowed to use the changeroom facilities and being forced to change in a vehicle were just some of the harsh realities of the system of apartheid. On many occasions he was informed of his entry to play in tournaments being approved at the last moment. This was done intentionally, so that he wouldn’t fare well. Playing golf at his level, he focused on playing the course and not fighting the system that eventually crippled his career and dreams of achieving more tournament accolades. Being the first person of colour to win an international tournament in a foreign country (the Dutch Open in 1959) on debut must have required all of his mental and playing skills. On and off the course, my dad was the same humble person. His temperament was a striking character. As a family, we never encountered any occasion when he lost his temper. Throughout my growing years, he played an important role as a father and guide to the rest of the family. I cannot imagine him raising his voice but I’m sure that the voice within endured and harboured a lot of frustration. Even when he travelled overseas to play golf, there was always this concern about his safety as he had become a symbol of (the fight against) apartheid and encroaching into a sport that was reserved for the elite. My mother, who is 90 years old today, had reservations about him travelling to foreign countries and the Special Branch police monitoring his movements. She had a lot of disappointments and one of those sad realities was not being able to see him play. Yet, the Durban Country Club and the area of Riverside, where they lived, was a stone’s throw away. My mother received the Order of Ikhamanga posthumously awarded to my dad by former president Thabo Mbeki. This was a momentous occasion for her, knowing my dad had finally been recognised for his achievements. Post-democracy, my dad has been recognised by the sports ministry and the Museum of Golf. Being banned from playing in any open tournaments from 1966 was the final blow to his golfing career. My dad only knew golf and that was his tool for making a living. Being born out of a poor family and with no formal education, he could not make a living outside of playing golf. We believe that if he was born in the right place and the right time, then this journey would not be historical. Given the same opportunities as his white counterparts, he would have been one of the best golfers the world has produced. As a family, it is an exciting time knowing that his legacy will continue and that future generations will remember that South Africa produced a world champion in “Papwa” Sewshanker Sewgolum, the son of a labourer. POST