Durban - "THEY say a man’s home is his castle. So welcome to my castle.” While Brandon Pillay’s home may not exactly look like one, except perhaps for the stone finish on the lounge walls of the two-bedroom flat, it encompasses everything he holds dear. As he sat on a black couch Pillay’s face lit up as he recalled growing up in a council home. The 36-year-old bachelor, a former city councillor who at one stage occupied the flat with at least 17 others, said it would always be his home. “I have lived here my whole life. This is the place my parents brought me to after my birth and I am happy here,” said the eThekwini municipal manager for Grant in Aid. “They say people only move away once they are uncomfortable or feel as though something is lacking in their life, but not for me. "I grew up with my parents, grandparents, cousins, aunts and uncles and, while this is a tiny home, we made it work, floor beds and all. “This community gives us a sense of belonging and it’s very hard to find people living together. We have been united in poverty. "If I need sugar or rice, the people in this area will help me out. Whereas, if I was living in another area, it won’t be the same.” For Pillay, an executive committee member for the ANC, his passion may be to help his community; however, it’s clear that his family are his world. “My family are very close-knit. We grew together, and although everyone has moved out by now, we are still there for one another. “Many people don’t know this, but I was a premature baby. "My mom, Radha, had been in town on April 2 1981, and a bus hit her, so she had to be rushed to hospital, she was seven months pregnant at that time and, due to the severity of her injuries, she had to be hospitalised. A month later, I was born. “Lucky for us, my grandparents and aunts were all around, so the moment my parents brought me home, she had enough hands to help with me and rest as well.” At the entrance to his flat there are three large photos on the wall of his mother who died in 2011, dad Vadivelu (Lucky) who died in 2009 and his elder brother Trevor, who died in 1999. “Trevor was stabbed in the neck at the age of 21, in February 1999 at the corner of the road,” he said. “The perpetrator lived nearby. Unfortunately, the witnesses were not strong enough and the matter was thrown out of court. "But he was a great inspiration for me and I think his death is another reason why I am always fighting for justice and trying to help the community.” In the lounge, a cabinet is filled with trophies, awards, medals and photos. “My five brothers and sister were always the sporty ones. I tried with volleyball and even soccer, but I was more of an academic. "If you ask me about soccer, I will just say I support Manchester United. Don’t ask me anything more.” However, Pillay does have some medals and trophies of his own, from swimming galas. He was also recognised for his community work with an Ammen Award from the Shri Mariammen Temple Society recently and last week graduated with a Bachelor of Public Administration (honours) degree from the Management College of Southern Africa. Pillay’s bedroom is large and fitted with brown cupboards that hold many of the bright suits he is fond of wearing. “I spend very little time at home because I am always out, either at work or assisting the community,” he said. “I am at home every evening to share a meal with my family (his aunt Vijay lives with him). My sister Shantal is married, however, she is here every single day cooking for me and, surprisingly, she cooks just like my mom would.” Pillay, who attended Summerfield Primary School and Chatsworth Secondary School, grew up in a humble home. “My dad was very politically inclined and I think that’s one of the reasons why I am like that as well,” he said. “While growing up, from around the age of 15, I was a supporter of the ANC. My dad, who was a part of the LAC (Local Affairs Committee) would organise and host meetings. "I remember he set up the first meeting in the area for the ANC. What’s great was I would get to see all these people and hear stories of democracy. “When I matriculated, we did not have the funds for me to study, so I tried to find a job. "While trying, I joined the Bayview Flats Residents Association. Our first case was a poor family who approached us. It turned out the child was very sick and she had HIV, but her mother did not know. “We sought all the help for that family and worked tirelessly with them to ensure they were okay. The child is now a teenager and doing well.” Pillay, who is always serious-minded and poker-faced while helping his community, is the opposite at home. “It is very hard to find families living in harmony nowadays and since my parents passed away my siblings and I have never been left to feel as though we are alone,” he said. “My aunt Vijay and a neighbour, Aunty Queen, have been living with me since my mom died in 2011. "My home is full every day with my nieces, nephew and sister,” he beamed as he held his niece, Avante Tracy Pillay. POST