Durban - When Dolly Khandaylall, known for her skills as a matchmaker, brought her cousin Sheila Bhagarette and George Rambroas together, she probably had no idea it would spark a 60-year love affair. The Reservoir Hills, Durban couple celebrated their diamond wedding anniversary on March 1. “I was 32 and was renting with a Muslim family in Overport. Back then, I owned a tearoom near Malls Tiles,” recalled George, 92. “All the Hindu ladies would look at me, but no one would consider marriage because they assumed I was Muslim. Back then it was frowned upon to date outside your religion.” But his luck was about to change. “Dolly came into the store, and we got chatting. "I explained that I was looking for someone and she mentioned having an eligible 26-year-old cousin residing in Greytown. "I immediately asked her to make contact with the young woman’s family, so we could get the ball rolling.” Sheila’s mother subsequently visited George at his tearoom and took a liking to him. She invited him to their home in Greytown to meet the rest of her family, including her daughter. A few of his friends and an uncle and aunt accompanied him. “It was a wonderful weekend. Everything went well. Sheila and I went on a walk together, and she was very shy,” he laughed. Blushing, Sheila, 86, responded: “That’s because I was so amazed and shocked by you. I was scared to say something wrong.” They agreed to marry and tied the knot a year later, in front of 600 guests at Sheila’s home. It was also a big day for Sheila’s sister Mannie, who got married at the joint ceremony. “We had a night wedding, which was different. We served puri, potato and beans, veda and other snacks,” said Sheila. “George hired the Riverside Dancing Company to perform, which was a popular group back then.” The couple relocated to Durban, and soon afterwards, George sold his tearoom and started importing and selling pots from India. After four years, their first child Meenakumari was born, followed by their son Ajith. The couple, who have four grandchildren, now spend time together gardening - they have fruit trees, a vegetable patch and flowering plants - or going to the movies. George is tasked with planting the seeds, while Sheila waters them with love. “She is not too well to go out on her own and garden, so I help her all the time,” said George. “She patiently waits for me, and when we are ready, she grabs onto my arm instead of her walking stick and we slowly make our way outside. Our garden is our most prized possession.” Despite his age, George can also be found selling sweets, chips and cool drink outside the Clare Estate Crematorium. The couple spent their anniversary at Suncoast Casino and Entertainment World. Being committed to their marriage was the glue that kept them together for so long, said George. POST