Durban - The drive-by shooting of a Durban North towing and taxi boss has sparked fears of more violence in an ongoing tow truck turf war. Lazarus “Fee” Naidoo, 41, the owner of Gypsy Towlines and Taxis, was gunned down outside his friend’s home in Sunford, Phoenix, on Monday afternoon. A 27-year-old man was arrested in connection with the shooting and is expected to appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court this week. Naidoo, a father of two, was shot seven times in the back and died on his way to hospital. A relative who requested anonymity said three weeks ago Naidoo had received threats from another tow truck operator. “On Monday, Lazarus went to his friend’s home to repair one of his two trucks. "They had just fetched the friend’s daughter from school and he was standing in the driveway while his friend went into his home to leave the child. “Suddenly four men in a red VW Polo arrived outside the home and opened fired on Lazarus. He was shot seven times in the back and fell to ground.” He added: “Lazarus was bleeding profusely. The friend contacted the paramedics and while being taken to hospital he died. “Three weeks ago he had a run-in with another tow truck operator who threatened to harm him if he continued to operate his tow trucks, but Lazarus brushed off the threats.” The relative described Naidoo as a calm person. “He was not a violent person and he did not believe in people having their own turfs. "For him business was business. It is hard to believe that people stoop so low for money. The shooting occurred near a school. Children could have been hit with a stray bullet.” Naidoo’s wife, Sharlene, 38, and sons are devastated. Family friend Pastor Aaron Munsamy of Trenance Park Family Centre said the funeral will take place today with a service at Bethesda International Ministries and cremation at the Verulam Crematorium. “We are holding services at the family’s home and have offered them counselling.” Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said an unlicensed firearm was seized from the suspect. “Charges of murder and possession of unlicensed firearm are being investigated.” POST