Durban - It was a scandal that rocked the University of KwaZulu-Natal a decade ago, when its chief financial officer, found himself embroiled in a sex and corruption probe, into allegations of an affair with the supervisor of his Master’s degree in taxation. That degree was withdrawn, and both parties sacked, despite their protestations and denials. But last week, Professor Kanthan Pillay was on the rebound, on Cloud 9, as he celebrated being conferred with another Master’s degree - in laws, this time from Nelson Mandela University. For the Reservoir Hills father of three, his newest qualification, passed with distinction, is a “get out of jail card”. The 54-year-old’s thesis was titled, Balancing the interests of Employer and Employee in Dismissal for Misconduct. Pillay said he had chosen the topic to master the law around the issue, and also “deal with the demon or the belly of the beast, so to speak, head on and turn my personal suffering into an academic achievement”. He was fired in August 2007, on the grounds that his relationship with then vice-chancellor had broken down completely. His disciplinary hearing had heard of an anonymous e-mail sent to university authorities, claiming that Pillay was having an affair with a colleague, who was his degree supervisor. Both fought their dismissals in the CCMA, which ruled in favour of the colleague only. However, in 2014 the Durban Labour Court found that Pillay’s dismissal had been procedurally unfair. UKZN’s acting executive director for corporate relations Normah Zondo said Pillay was dismissed for serious misconduct and that it had appealed the labour court verdict. “The appeal was argued before the Labour Appeal Court. Unfortunately one of the justices of this court passed away prior to judgment being delivered. "The university is currently considering its legal options in these circumstances.” Pillay claims he was irregularly stripped of his Master’s degree by UKZN, and unfairly dismissed. “Fortunately, I now have a judgment that not only confirms that I was unfairly dismissed but that I was victimised.” Despite everything, Pillay longs to return to the university. “I am an academic, and a creature of habit. Not getting up on a daily basis, and going to university remains very trying to me,” he said. “I now only meet my colleagues at funerals these days, which is very often. I will continue with my legal challenge until I am reinstated.” To those fighting similar battles, he said: “The truth shall always prevail. Never give up if you believe in yourself.” Pillay thanked his mother for her unwavering support during his most trying times. POST