Durban - Muslim women in South Africa have hailed the decision by Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, which gives females more leeway in their dress, as a step in the right direction. Women in the desert country need not wear black abayas (a robe-like dress) nor niqabs (a head covering), which are symbolic of piety. They can choose as they please as long as their attire is decent and respectful. Prince Mohammad bin Salman had reportedly said: “The laws are very clear and stipulated in the sharia (Islamic law), is that women wear decent, respectful clothing like men. "This, however, does not particularly specify a black abaya or a black head cover. The decision is entirely left for a woman to decide what type of decent and respectful attire she chooses to wear.” Former Saudi Arabia resident Qudsia Mall, 35, of Durban’s North Beach, who lived in the country for seven years, said she often felt oppressed about her dressing and day-to-day living and was glad Saudi women were now becoming more liberated. “It often felt like a gender apartheid in Saudi (Arabia) as women were restricted in many aspects of their lives,” said Mall. “Non-Muslim women were also subjected to the ruling and had to be covered from head to toe in the hijab and were reprimanded by the religious police if they were caught without it. “Women were also unable to enjoy activities as they would in other countries such as scuba diving.” Mall added that besides not being able to dress as they would like, women felt forced to conform to what was expected, with some left feeling claustrophobic in their own homes. “Some of the laws included women not being able to travel in taxis because these vehicles were driven by men, who were neither their husbands nor male relatives.” She continued: “Women are not allowed to drive and they found themselves feeling isolated indoors as their husbands were often busy with work and could not take them out. “It is now a great feeling knowing that women in society, irrespective of religion, are now becoming more liberated. “I am happy that Muslim women have more say in what they wear. They can incorporate their style be it oriental, Gothic, grunge, funky or classy into their outfits, allowing for freedom of expression.” According to reports, only Saudi Arabian men were issued with driving licences but by June 24 this year women will also be permitted to legally drive for the first time. Isipingo mother-of-two, Humarah Assan, said she chose to wear the hijab and niqab and did not feel oppressed or forced to do so. “Wearing a niqab was a decision I made at the age of 21. It was a spiritual influence and not because I was going to get married in future and would have to be covered up. I chose to wear it for myself and my creator.” The 34-year-old said that as a Muslim woman, she continued to live a normal and fulfilling life. “I am part of the Rhino Riders Biker Club and wearing the niqab never deterred me from experiencing life. "And I have never felt as if I am being judged when I am outdoors wearing a helmet, biker’s jacket and boots and climb on my bike even though I am dressed in the hijab. “People are often excited to see a Muslim woman dressed traditionally but still living out her passion.” Assan added: “Women who wear their niqabs in South Africa are not all oppressed. We also feel we are not subjected to prying eyes and derogatory comments from the opposite sex, as many women often are.” The chairperson of the Caring Sisters Network, Yasiera Suliman, said the ruling of dressing “modestly” had been in existence from the time of the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) and it would be applicable in perpetuity irrespective of which government or which ruler was in power in any part of the world. “Although women do have that freedom to dress and do not have to have their face covered or wear the abaya, it is also important (that) they maintain the conditions. “Women must be dressed in modest, non-revealing, non-transparent clothing and their outfits must not resemble that of a man. "The clothing should cover her hair, her hands up to her wrists and her feet up to her ankles. The choice to cover the face is left to the individual.” Suliman added that women had always wanted to be recognised for their inner beauty and intellect. “We often find that some men look at women with lustful gazes and purely in a sexual context. "Therefore, it is preferred that women dress modestly to a large extent, removing the lustfulness, which will also allow the man to hear her out without staring at her exposed bosom or legs. "It allows a woman to be seen for her intellect and personality and not just her figure.” POST