Opinion - Now that we are in a democracy, we almost take for granted the principle of non-racialism in sport. Yes, the debates over racial quotas and the pace of sports development remain. But, by and large, non-racialism is now the accepted norm - a far cry from the days when sport was segregated strictly on racial lines and national, provincial and club teams were exclusively white. The change in attitudes and policy did not happen overnight. Nor did it come without sacrifice and struggle. It was, in fact, achieved after a long and well-coordinated campaign by organisations which worked tirelessly for a sports boycott of the apartheid regime. What is often forgotten these days is the role played by many sports people and administrators in the local community who were at the vanguard of this campaign for non-racialism. They included legendary figures in the anti-apartheid struggle such as Morgan Naidoo, Norman Middleton, SKChetty, Archie Hulley, MN Pather and Sam Ramsamy, among many others. And, to prove that sporting prowess had nothing to do with race and colour, this generation also produced sporting heroes who did us proud on the field of play. One such legend was golfer Papwa Sewgolum, who rose to international fame despite all the efforts of the apartheid authorities to stifle his progress. This week marks 40 years since the passing of Sewgolum, who went on to win the Dutch Open three times. A man of humble means, he had a burning ambition to prove he was equal to - if not better than - many of the privileged golfers whose clubs he carried to earn a living. And, when an opening presented itself in 1963 and he was given special permission to play in the “whites-only” Natal Open, he proved his mettle. He went on to finish second in the SA Open and, in 1965, won a major battle for non-racialism in sport by beating Gary Player, one of the world’s top golfers at the time, at the Durban Country Club. Not allowed inside the clubhouse where whites were celebrating, he was forced to receive his trophy outside in the rain. Given the same opportunity as his white counterparts, Sewgolum could possibly have become one of the world’s greatest golfers. His story is a powerful chapter in the history of sport in our country and must never be allowed to be forgotten. He succeeded against almost insurmountable odds and deserves to be appropriately honoured for his achievements - lest we forget. POST