Durban - A generous KwaDukuza octogenarian and retired businessman, intent on ensuring terminally ill patients receive all-round care, donated R100 000 to the Dolphin Coast Hospice Association. The money was directed toward a R9.5 million daycare and inpatient building project spearheaded by the non-profit association on land donated by the KwaDukuza municipality. The land, in Stanger Manor, has already been excavated and the building plans are being completed. It is expected to be up and running in three years and will serve as a daycare and inpatient facility. Juggiah Naidoo, 87, said his contribution would be channelled toward a respite unit, which the 15-year-old hospice lacked. “I have visited various organisations and many of them do not receive funding or get partial funding from the government. "They rely heavily on sponsors and public donations. I wanted to contribute towards a respite unit for terminally ill patients. "Caregivers will be on hand 24/7 to ensure they get the best possible care,” said the grandfather of 10. “It would benefit families in that, if they need to go away for some reason, they can rest assured their loved one would be cared for until they return.” Naidoo added that the financial injection formed part of his seva. He also assisted religious, old age and child welfare organisations. The association’s chairperson, Krish Venkatasamy, said it had always been their dream to provide the community with a fully fledged facility. “We are currently renting space in a temple basement and we desperately need more room. "By expanding we can help more patients, as many of them are from underprivileged homes and do not have access to proper healthcare and sometimes a plate of food.” After more than 10 years of negotiations, Venkatasamy said the land had been donated by their local municipality. “We will soon launch a fundraising project, called Club 500, and will call on businessmen to make monthly or yearly pledges toward the project and operational costs.” POST