Durban - A prominent businessman was shot in the mouth, forearm and abdomen in what is suspected to have been a “hit”. Miraculously, both father-of-three Naaz Moosa, 58, the owner of Superior Bricks in Pietermaritzburg, and a client who was shot in the neck, survived the attack and are recovering in hospital. Moosa’s distraught family and community are offering a reward of R150 000 to anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the shooter. Still reeling from the events of last Thursday morning, his nephew, Mohammed Moosa, said his uncle was in a meeting with the client at his factory near Albert Falls when the incident occurred. “Both men were standing in the reception area when the suspect entered the premises and went on a shooting rampage. "Chaos broke out as staff screamed and hid for cover. My uncle was shot in the mouth, forearm and abdomen. "His client was shot in the neck.” Mohammed said that in the chaos, the shooter got away. “Although bleeding profusely, my uncle managed to get into his vehicle and one of his employees drove him to the Midlands Medical Centre for treatment. “The client drove himself to Grey’s Hospital. While in the car, my uncle called me to tell me he had been shot. I rushed to the clinic.” Mohammed said the grandfather of six was sent in for scans to locate the bullets. “The bullet that went into the mouth ricocheted off his teeth and came out through his nostrils. "The second bullet hit his abdomen but did not cause any severe damage. The third went through his forearm and hit his elbow.” He said his uncle would need to undergo physiotherapy to recover movement in his arm. “The client is doing well and recovering in hospital. It is a miracle both survived. Since the attack became known, the family has been inundated with calls and visits from concerned community members.” Mohammed said he was baffled by the shooting. “My uncle is a well-known figure in Pietermaritzburg, apart from the brick factory. He also has businesses in other fields. “I cannot understand who would want to harm him. No one had a reason to do so. He is a peaceful man who had no quarrels or disputes with anyone,” he said. “We believe it is a hit because of the way the crime was carried out. Nothing was taken; the man just came into the business premises and started shooting. “Criminals need to be taught a lesson. You cannot just go around shooting people. What if my uncle had died? We want justice,” he said. “The shooter is still out there. Every night I pray that he is caught and given the harshest punishment. "The past few days have been agonising for us, not knowing whether my uncle would be okay.” The chairperson of the Sector Four Community Policing Forum, Bacha Beharie, believes the incident was a hit. “The suspect took nothing. He just walked in and opened fire on both men. Naaz was a well-known and respected businessman in the community. Whoever did this came to do one thing and that is kill.” Beharie said the forum, in conjunction with security company RZS Protection, patrolled the northern suburbs of Pietermaritzburg. “Crime is getting out of control. We have robberies and hijackings daily. The spike in crime can be attributed to the increasing drug trade in the area, as in Phoenix and Chats­worth.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said no arrests had been made. Anyone with information on the shooting can contact the police or Mohammed Moosa at 0827862922. POST