Durban - It was a family affair as three members of the Magwanyana family graduated from the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) earleir this week. Philisiwe, her brother Thandokuhle and his wife Mandy graduated with Masters in Education in the Teacher Development Studies discipline. Said Philisiwe, “My masters journey was amazing. It was not easy as there were challenges which I managed to overcome with the support of my family and my supervisor, Dr Jaqueline Naidoo. "This journey taught me a lot: to be patient, to read every day, to be a lifelong learner, to believe in myself and to understand how my past experiences influence the teacher I am today. Most importantly, I realised the importance of teacher identity in teaching.” Philisiwe’s study explored the personal and professional identities of Mathematics teachers in the intermediate phase. Said Thandokhule, “My masters journey was humbling and challenging. I decided to enrol for my Masters in Teacher Development Studies because I wanted to bring about change in my profession and the community. "I value education and regard it as an important mechanism to improve people’s lives.” In his master’s study, Thandokuhle explored teacher learning of FET phase Life Orientation teachers in Professional Learning Communities (PLCs) at a secondary school in the Umkhambathi circuit. Mandy said, “My masters was a good, life-changing experience. My family played an important role in helping me to be successful and guided me when I lost my sense of direction along the way.” Mandy’s study aimed to explore teacher learning of Grade 10 Mathematics teachers in Professional Learning Communities (PLCs) in one cluster in Umkhambathi circuit in Umgungundlovu district. The three proud family members all thanked their supervisor Dr Jaqueline Naidoo, for her support and encouragement. According to Dr Naidoo, “They were very committed and dedicated to their studies and motivated each other to focus on their studies and meet deadlines.” POST