Durban - Looking for quick meal ideas to entertain guests? Well, the second season of Bunnies in the Burbs has started and the show’s host, Taynita Harilal, has meals from various countries and cultures to impress your guests. This season of the show, which launched online last Wednesday, features guests including award-winning afro-jazz guitarist and producer Kunle Ayo, publisher and storyteller Zanele Ndlovu and leading HIV and gender activist Yvette Raphael, among others. “This time around we have guests with great recipes to share and even greater stories to tell. "There is a delectable mix of recipes and also something for cooks and home makers of every skill level. “This show not only focuses on the food, but also on the guests and the foods they enjoy. "It is said the food a person enjoys tells a lot of their character. “This season we invited guests from Senegal and Nigeria and learn about the cultures and foods there, which is great because the countries they hail from are portrayed as poor and without a variety of food, but through the guests we learn they actually do have great dishes.” The idea of Bunnies in the Burbs, she said, came from her mother Vanessa Perumal: “She owns a public relations company and wanted to create a digital cooking show that was easily accessible and had easy recipes. "Since everyone is online, she decided to go digital. I jumped at the opportunity to join and, two years later, here we are in its second season.” The 21-year-old Johannesburg resident, who interviewed Durbanite Usha Ramjathan last week, said it was a great experience: “She was not only a guest, but my aunt. "We made samoosas and a spicy dip. She spoke about her life and my dad while growing up. It was great and I got amazing samoosas as well.” Harilal, who is pursuing a triple major in international relations, African literature and media studies, said the show helped her learn about different cultures and communicate more effectively. Bunnies in the Burbs is streamed each week on MTN Shortz across South Africa and Nigeria. Videos can also be found online on YouTube. POST