I mean, I’d like to think of myself as belonging to the Indian community, so do I belong to a community that is, in his view, partially racist? It was okay when Mbongeni Ngema and Julius Malema accused the community of being racist because there was an economic and political benefit and because I could see the political and economic benefits that would come with such an allegation but when people like Justice Yacoob say it, perhaps it is necessary to do some serious personal and communal introspection. So I’m starting with myself. Great where do I start? I know I’ll start with Google. Type in “Am I a racist?” Oh. There’s a quiz. I love quizzes. Let’s see. Question One: Do you think you are a racist? Yes, No or Maybe? Hmm what a silly question! Okay, I’ll pick “Maybe”. Question Two: Is the first thing you notice when a person enters a room their colour or race? Yes, Sometimes or No? Hmm okay, “Sometimes”. Question Three: Are there specific races that you don’t like? Well, I don’t like sprints. Come to think about it I don’t like long distance races as well. Maybe they mean whether I like horse racing or motor-racing. Argh I hate choices. I’ll answer “No”. Question Four: Do you make racial remarks or comments? Oh No! I’m trapped. Yes, Sometimes, Jokingly, Rarely, No? More choices. Let me think. Okay, I’m going to answer “Sometimes”. Question Five: Do you know or have any friends who are of a different race than yourself? Mmm what race am I? Is South African a race? Am I Indian? Caucasian? Okay, let me not stress about this. “Yes”. Question Six: What is your opinion on interracial relationships? Gee I have no opinion really. It is normal, different, weird or wrong? I mean why should I care about who someone else is in a relationship with? I suppose they are quite “normal”. Question Seven: What is your first reaction when you see a Caucasian woman with an African-American child? My goodness no, that’s not my reaction! What a silly question! I have to choose between “Awe he or she is so cute!”, “Good for them”, “That child is probably adopted”, “I wonder if the father is still in their life”, “She’s so trashy!” Well, I love children but many of them are not cute in any way. I’m going to answer ‘Good for them”. Question Eight: Do you refuse to participate in another culture other than yours (food, music, activities, holidays, fashion etc.)? Yes, sometimes, It depends on the culture, Rarely, No. Well, I love interacting with people and I enjoy all cultural events and festivities. In the last year alone I have been to a mosque, a Hindu temple, Buddhist retreat, Sikh temple and church. I went to the Africa Day celebrations and Chinese New Year festivities as well. I don’t have a problem eating kosher or halaal food and I don’t mind if people want to pray before a meal. I guess my answer is “No”. Waiting with bated breath Oh no! I got: “You are a racist. Yes, you are against black people according to your answer you do not like black people.” What! No ways I’m going to do the test again. Maybe I answered incorrectly. I go through the questions again. Twenty minutes later and after changing my answers I still get I am a racist. Now I’m wondering whether this quiz knows something about me. You know how accurate these quizzes are. I mean, just yesterday one of the quizzes said I was a genius because I got full marks for a history quiz. It said I was in the top 4% of the world population on the basis of that score. The quiz must be right. Now I wonder whether the police could arrest me as they did Vicki Momberg (you know her, from her racist tirade that got her sent to prison for three years) and whether the results of my quiz may be used as evidence against me in a court of law. It looks like I have to change my ways if I don’t want to end up in prison. But what do I change? The more I think about it, the more I realise that we have been so effectively socialised into being racists or, perhaps more correctly, effectively socialised into being blind to our own racism because we think it’s normal. The whole truth is that we were educated and trained to be racist or, more correctly, to know our position in a racist society. Of course, we may all know that there is really no such thing as race or that there is any credible basis for thinking that one person is inferior or superior to another person on the basis of the colour of their skin. It must be a powerful system that can create and sustain artificial divisions on the basis of a non-existent 
phenomenon. We have been taught to believe that white is good and black is bad, and, since we want to be good, we aspire towards being white. If racism is learned then it can be unlearned and challenged. The fact is that the Indian community had also been subjected to racism and it was not nice. It’s hard to imagine that it was illegal for an Indian child to enter the playgrounds at Mitchell Park or that we had to purchase a Wimpy burger from a service hatch around the side because we were not allowed to enter or eat in the restaurant. So, it’s all very well for Ngema, Malema and Justice Yacoob to point out that many Indians are racist but these statements must be tempered with a sense of understanding that there is no magic wand that would transform people from racists to non-racists overnight. Perhaps the process starts with us not being defensive when we are accused of being racist and, perhaps, the better position is “Yes, I am a racist but I’m working on not being a racist”.  *  Kiren Thathiah is 
an artist, academic, author and creative director at SA Local Content.