Durban - With the aim of promoting gender equality, the Minority Front has launched a campaign to distribute sanitary pads to school girls in Phoenix, Chatsworth, Pietermaritzburg and other areas. “Last year, the Department of Education brought forward their plan to distribute sanitary pads to schools. "I did not want to sit back and also wanted do something to make a difference in the lives of these young girls,” said party leader Shameen Thakur Rajbansi. In November 2016, the department launched a project for the provisioning of sanitary pads to indigent girl learners in selected quintile (1 to 4) schools from Grade 4 to 12. According to a department circular by Enock Vusumuzi, the initiative seeks to reduce the dropout rate of girl learners caused by missing out on school due to them not being able to afford sanitary pads. For Thakur Rajbansi, her role in the distribution is motivated by gender equality . “Gender equality is important to me and I found that out because young girls did not have money to buy sanitary pads when menstruating. "They would not attend school for that period and in some cases these girls would eventually drop out of school. They are basically putting their futures in jeopardy and, as a society, we cannot allow this to continue.” Thakur Rajbansi said the girls are from poor families and purchasing sanitary pads was not a priority in the home. “Families have their own financial challenges and putting food on the table takes priority. Sanitary pads are expensive and in most cases there is no money to purchase them. “These young women are left to find alternate solutions,which are, in most cases, unhygienic.” The party, said Thakur Rajbansi, purchased the sanitary pads from a Chatsworth company. “They come in a pack of 10 wrapped in blue or pink packaging with the MF name across it. "It is quite expensive to manufacture but we have to start somewhere even if it is on a small scale. We intend on starting distribution in the second term of school and our area co-ordinators are working with schools to identify the girls who need assistance.” Thakur Rajbansi said it was important for political parties to practise what they preached. “Apart from government, I believe as a party, which is dedicated to serving the community, it is our responsibility to play a leading role in helping these young women.” POST