Not all children throw tantrums at a whim. There could be underlying factors you may not be aware of, so think before you judge. Parents with children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) are often stigmatised for being lazy and unconcerned by their “unruly” kids’ behaviour. But a child with ASD, a complex neuro-behavioural condition that includes impairments in social interaction, developmental language and communication skills combined with rigid repetitive behaviours, may not be able to control his or her conduct. Occupational therapist and lecturer Debbie Fewster said parents often developed “rhino skin” when dealing with an autistic child. “It can be a constant uphill battle for parents who may 
feel they have to fight for acceptance because they are frowned upon due to their child’s behaviour. “The uniformed public often makes comments without understanding that the child is most likely responding badly due to the overwhelming sensory world around them,” explained Fewster. She said parents often 
felt like failures due to insensitive comments and tended to isolate themselves and their children from other people’s ridicule. “This is extremely sad as some of the children I have worked with who have ASD 
are the most beautiful souls; just with a different perceptive on life. "We, as ‘typically developing’ individuals have a responsibility to accept all people despite what we think are normal and acceptable behaviour.” The National Director of Autism South Africa, Sandy Usswald, said de-stigmatisation formed part of the core role of the non-profit organisation. “Research undertaken revealed that, primarily due to stigmatisation and a lack of understanding, only 0.8% of children with ASD were enrolled in any type of school and a mere 0.4% of our nation’s children with ASD were receiving a beneficial education. “Due to the fact that the manifestations are reactionary and behavioural, many communities in South Africa believe children with ASD are ‘possessed’ or a punishment from God or angered ancestors. “In a concerted effort to dispel these myths, we explain to community and tribal leaders, through a diplomatic approach, what ASD is to prevent painful and even fatal rituals from possibly taking place.” Usswald said it was important to celebrate and champion the diversity and creativity of people with ASD and ensure their rights are realised. “We need to achieve a society in which all people on the autism spectrum enjoy all the rights and opportunities to meet their needs and fulfil their potential throughout their lives; as equal members of their families and communities.” The chairperson of the Autism Awareness Group, Kasturie Nadasen, encouraged parents to seek guidance from autism organisations and support groups, which would allow them to meet and relate with other families facing the same challenges. “It is often overwhelming for parents when they are told their child has ASD and so immediate access to emotional support and guidance is vital. "The more you know about ASD, the better equipped you will be to make informed decisions for your child. “Parents can share information, get advice and lean on each other for emotional 
support. "Just being around others in the same boat and sharing their experiences can go a long way towards reducing the isolation many parents experience. "Through the support, you will also be able to help your child overcome personal challenges and make daily life a bit easier.” The group meets on the second Saturday of the month at the Merebank Community Centre from 3 to 4pm. POST