Durban - Bluff insurance broker Jonathan David has some pearls of wisdom for his generation: “You are never too old to realise a dream - all it takes is persistence.” 
At 68, the father of three was recently admitted as an attorney while most people his age have long settled into retirement. When people applaud his achievement, he tries to motivate them by pointing to the example of an American woman, Nola Ochs, who was the world’s oldest college graduate at age 95. “She also went on to set another world record by earning her master’s degree at age 98. She died in December 2016 at age 105,” the former Chatsworth resident told POST. At 61, David started his law degree at Unisa, taking strength from a statement by former US president Calvin Coolidge: “Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence.” He graduated in 2015 and completed a one year Law Society of SA practical legal training course which enabled him to halve the mandatory two year articles. He served articles of clerkship with AB Maharaj attorneys, finishing in July. It was the culmination of decades of hard work. David was born in Greyville and his family relocated to Chatsworth due to the Group Areas Act. At age 3, his mother Elizabeth died and his father Paul, a wine steward in the hotel industry, was left to take care of him and his five siblings. But later, David’s aunt began taking care of him and then his siblings. As they grew older, they worked at various hotels as page boys, carrying guests’ luggage and operating the lifts. David earned 13 pounds a month and sometimes a little more if the tips were good. “With the money earned, we bought school uniforms and shoes,” he recalled. After matriculating, he obtained a bachelor of commerce degree at Unisa in 1975 but was unable to serve his articles in accounting firms, he said, due to racial discrimination. “When I arrived at interviews, companies realised I was not white, as my name suggested, and the doors were no longer open to me.” He then secured a job at a consumer goods company but was dismissed for challenging the rules and segregation of workers. “I then worked at my brother’s insurance company and thereafter in the tax industry before continuing work alongside my brother. In 1998, I started brokering.” Describing himself as a bibliophile, David said his love for reading helped him during his studies. Apart from playing tennis, he enjoys spending time with his wife, Madeline, and reading. He has a library consisting of about 3 000 books. David, who has an insurance industry qualification, intends on studying towards a master’s degree and ultimately doctoral degree in law. POST