Opinion - The results of the matric class of 2017 are now being digested and assessed by a range of stakeholders and, by most accounts, they are, like the proverbial curate’s egg, good in parts. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga was pleased with the overall 75.1% pass rate, a slight improvement on last year. Also encouraging was that KZN showed the biggest improvement in the country - an increase of 6.4%. On the other side of the coin, the education department readily concedes that, despite the notable improvements, much remains to be done in future. For those learners who did not make the grade this time, this is not a time to despair, but to join the Second Chance Matric Support Programme for another chance to qualify for their matric certificate. Now that the results have been announced, it is time for each education stakeholder to ask the question: “What now?” For its part, the SA Democratic Teachers’ Union is saying the results are something to be celebrated and attributes this to the hard work put in by teachers. But, while those teachers who showed true commitment by teaching over the holidays and weekends and conducting extensive revision programmes deserve special praise, complaints about teacher absenteeism and general behaviour in some areas remain. Learners who have passed matric will now need to adopt a holistic approach when choosing their future career paths. For the vast majority, the time has come for pupils to embark on a programme to examine all their defining personal attributes, skills, values, passions, talents and abilities to help identify and then research career paths that are aligned to their strengths. And here’s where parents can play a crucial role. As one respected educationist and sociologist observed: “At this time more than ever, parents need to be open minded and collaborative, exchanging the authoritarian role for that of fellow explorer. “Show interest and offer practical support by assisting with research or even calling on your own personal and professional networks. Keep the focus clearly on your child’s life satisfaction and future happiness.” And that bit of worthy advice came with an important warning to parents. Don’t be blind to the fact that times are changing faster than ever before - the careers available to a child today look nothing like those that were once available to you. In the coming weeks, pupils face decisions that have the potential to affect the rest of their lives - help them choose wisely. POST