Durban - It was a bitter-sweet day for a well-respected crime fighter at the SAPS Pietermaritzburg K9 Unit, who retired recently after 42 years of service. Warrant Officer David Pillay, 60, who has helped put drug dealers behind bars, could not contain his excitement, and sadness. “I am heartsore about leaving my co-workers, with whom I have worked with for over four decades, but I cannot wait to spend quality time with my wife of 36 years, Hazel, who has been my backbone.” The father of three said that at age 18 he chose to follow in the footsteps of his father, Krishnasamy Dorasamy Pillay, an ex service man in the South African Navy. “When I completed school, I decided to also serve my country. I wanted to make a change and still do,” said Pillay, who applied for a job at Mountain Rise SAPS. While awaiting feedback, he continued working at a tea manufacturing factory. On February 26, 1975, he was sworn in as a student constable at the station and then studied at the police training college in Wentworth. After completing a year of training, he was stationed at the Mountain Rise SAPS and later Greytown police station. “While I was away from home, my dad got sick and I requested a transfer back to Pietermaritzburg and worked at the K9 Unit dealing with various cases, including working closely with the drug dog handlers. “It was a wonderful experience and I am proud to have played a role in cleaning the streets of drugs, putting dealers behind bars and saving children’s lives.” After spending many years out in the field, Pillay later became the head of the supply chain management and financial services department, where he had been based for 20 years until retirement. “In my many years of service I have experienced highs and lows. Among the highs were serving at the funeral of the late Moses Mabhida, performing duties at the annual race marathons and making a significant bust of a major drug lord and ensuring a stiff sentence was handed down. “However there has been many lows such as not receiving the support of management and insufficient resources to perform duties conclusively. "Also not receiving recognition for outstanding work performed and most significantly witnessing the lack of discipline within the police.” Touching on the issue of crime and the crime surge in the country, Pillay said there was little the “helpless” police officer could do if they did not receive the support of management and the justice system. “Drugs have sadly impacted more negatively on our communities throughout the years and as a result crime levels have escalated. "Drug dealers are not being punished sufficiently for their criminal acts. They are given light sentences and can afford the best attorneys. Harsher sentences should definently be imposed on the perpetrators.” Pillay said now he had more time to do charity work and would work with the local amateur soccer club, Maritzburg Sporting, that catered for children from disadvantaged communities. POST