Durban - Where are the police? That’s what more and more worried motorists are asking following a spate of incidents of rock-throwing on South Africa’s roads. Despite lives being lost and vehicles damaged at the hands of criminals, nothing is being done to curb the problem, not even at hot spots, they say. The latest victim, businessman Neville Naidoo, said he felt lucky to be alive after his VW Polo GTI was struck by a rock on Sunday night while he was travelling along Old North Coast Road at the bridge just past Cypress Drive. “It was around 7.45pm. I was travelling alone to Durban North to visit a relative and as I drove under the bridge a rock hit my windscreen. It felt like a bomb had hit my car and sounded like a gunshot,” said a shaken Naidoo. Realising he was a victim of rock-throwing, the father-of-two said he did not stop his car immediately, but drove straight to a garage nearby for help. “The day before I was reading the newspaper about the number of incidents that had taken place in Durban. "Little did I realise I would become a victim. The rock was half the size of a football and it shattered my windscreen. "The broken glass from the windscreen hit my face, slightly impairing my vision.” Naidoo said he was not prepared to stop his vehicle. “I was really traumatised but I knew if I stopped my vehicle I would have been attacked. I truly feel lucky to be alive because had the rock hit my sun roof I would have been hit on the head.” Naidoo said he had not seen his attackers. “Something needs to be done to ensure the culprits are caught. Innocent people’s lives are being put at risk.” Ballito student and musician Kirthan Pillay also fell prey to rock-throwing on the M4 underneath the Boy’s Town bridge on Friday afternoon. Pillay, 19, the son of well-known musician Karthiegasen Pillay, was retuning home from the University of KwaZulu-Natal, where he is studying business science, when he was attacked. “I was headed north along the M4 listening to music when out of the corner of my eye I saw this rock flying at my windshield. For a second I wanted to swerve to avoid it, but I realised I would have ended up in the oncoming lane.” Pillay said the rock hit his windshield and he did not see the culprits. “I continued to drive and contacted my dad to tell him what had happened. He advised me not to stop but to drive slowly until I got home.” Pillay said at first he was calm but later realised the seriousness of what happened. “I realised now that I could have been killed and I am thankful to be alive. I believe these criminals are doing this for fun and I don’t think police are seeing these incidents as serious. They need to identify the hot spots and have police vehicles patrol those areas.” SAPS are urging victims to open cases at their nearest police stations in order for them to clamp down on the incidents. Spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele told POST that although crime groups are abuzz with warnings of rock-throwing incidents, she was only aware of two incidents. “People are falling prey to these guys but they are not opening cases and when we don’t patrol the area, they are saying the police are not doing anything,” she said. “I myself have seen posts on social media about rocks being thrown but when we go back and ask if people had opened cases, they hadn’t.” Mbele said police are patrolling roads in oThongathi (Tongaat) and along the North Coast “heavily”. “We are patrolling, we are also responding to calls we receive and going out to those areas in numbers but when we question the community around, they deny having any knowledge. “We need people to come out, even community members, and inform us if they know of anyone who is throwing rocks so we can deal with the people. It is very hard to tackle something with little knowledge of where it is taking place.” Mbele urged motorists to be extra vigilant. “I cannot ask motorists not to use certain roads as those are their daily routes to get from point A to B. I can’t request they use alternate routes either as it will add extra travel time and I can’t say for how long they would need to use alternate routes. "The solution to this lies within the community members. We need those who are seeing these things happening or seeing rocks piled up on the side of a road or in the bush to contact us.” Road Traffic Inspectorate spokesperson Zinhle Mngomezulu declined to comment on the incidents, referring POST to the SAPS. The eThekwini Municipality said a task team would be set up to deal with the matter. On the cards are safety barriers and closed circuit television cameras at hot spots. The project will be spearheaded by deputy mayor Fawzia Peer, who chairs the municipality’s safety and emergency committee. The KZN Department of Transport’s spokesperson, Kwanele Ncalane, said they had already set up a team to deal with rock-throwing. “We will be working with authorities to get rid of these incidents on our roads and we urge motorists to be vigilant on the roads.” Meanwhile, a ‘Let’s stop bridge violence’ petition set up two weeks ago has been gaining support over the past few days. The petition was created by on Avaaz.org by user Sue L, who stated: “I am devastated by the recent loss of two kids because of this violence and have myself been personally affected. It’s shocking that we can’t travel safely on our freeways and have to be held hostage by criminals who throw objects off bridges on to our motorists.” The petition, which has been shared numerous times, had garnered 7900 signatures by Tuesday morning. POST