Durban - Four classrooms at a Phoenix school were evacuated on the first day back last week after a bank collapsed, threatening to topple the buildings. The bank is on the boundary of Greenheights Primary School and a set of newly built homes. Just days before the start of the new school year, Greenheights lost part of its fencing and suffered foundational cracks. Its staff and governing body, however, fear the worst is yet to come. A similar incident took place last month which had residents of the homes, built by Woodglaze Trading, fleeing for their lives. And while rehabilitation was promised at the time, the issue continues, according to residents. Now Greenheights’ governing body is demanding answers, saying the problem was created in 2016 when construction of the homes on Greenbury Drive began. A 50m excavation at a 90 degree angle was said to be the start of the year-long matter. “When we saw excavations starting, we immediately informed Woodglaze Trading and eThekwini Municipality of the threat posed to safety at our school,” said SGB member Veni Govender. “The Department of Education’s Physical Planning Department was also notified.” Govender said numerous correspondence and phone calls by the school were not favourably addressed. “With the recent inclement weather and flooding, we have seen sections of our school fence collapse. "Also, it has caused three blocks in the school to be affected. The foundation is shifting due to the cut at a 90 degree angle by Woodglaze contractors. “Our school is currently unable to use four classrooms due to this. The safety of our children have been compromised. We fear that with another rainfall, the bank will wash away from under our classrooms, causing a total collapse of our buildings.” Govender said attempts to resolve the issue have been futile. “The safety of our children is of great importance. Something needs to be done immediately before disaster strikes.” Education department spokesperson Sicelo Khuzwayo said the matter is being addressed. “We have sent out teams from the district to assess the area and it should be resolved in due course.” Meanwhile, three families who were evacuated last month were told they would be able to return to their homes as soon as remedial work was completed, but they have yet to hear from Woodglaze. Levi Govindsamy Nair, a 41-year-old security manager who lived at one of the properties with his wife and two boys aged 17 and 10, and were moved to a housing development in Grove-End, said the school fence had fallen into his backyard. “We just took everything we could and left, unsure of when we would be able to return to our homes. But they said this would be temporary, but it looks like we will be away for months. “We’ve had no meeting with Woodglaze, from December, so no one knows what’s going on.” Nair wants to see the engineering plans before returning to the property. “The bank collapsed twice before and the greatest concern now is our safety.” Nair moved into the home in March. “When we initially bought the house we saw that the retaining wall at the back of our house was unsafe. We knew it wasn’t going to hold. "I sent e-mails to the developers for engineering certificates to see if the wall was passed but to date have not received any feedback.” Nair said the developers had claimed that the school has a stormwater drain running under the homes, which is causing the problem. However, the school insists there was no problem for 38 years, but only when Woodglaze began construction. They also claim that contractors had come onto the school property to re-divert storm water away from the Woodglaze-built properties. Woodglaze’s general manager, Pravesh Inderjeeth, said: “The diversion was a temporary solution to avoid any further damage to the school and the embankment.” Inderjeeth said he had not received any information of further collapse but confirmed that remedial work on the effected properties is expected to continue soon. “Remedial work will now commence as most of the contractors and professional teams have returned after the December vacation. "We cannot at this stage confirm when the remedial work will be completed, however this matter has been given priority.” The KZN Department of Public Works said a team of civil and structural engineers had inspected the site and a technical report was being crafted “after which notice will be served on the developer to stabilise the embankment as per the engineers’ recommendations and specifications at his cost”. Human Settlements and Public Works MEC Ravi Pillay said: “This kind of reckless behaviour cannot be tolerated where developers flout municipal by-laws and building regulations. "We call on the public to be alert in instances like these and draw our attention to such to enable us to intervene.” POST