Durban - Shooting blanks into the air to herald in the new year turned deadly when a man, unaware his gun still had one bullet in its chamber, allegedly fired in the direction of his friend who had come to spread festive cheer. 
The bullet struck Keegan Govender in the head and he died later in hospital. While the family of Govender, 32, grieve over his untimely and tragic death, they’re also fuming after he was allegedly turned away from a private hospital because he did not have medical aid.  A specialist called in to help also allegedly refused to treat Govender for the same reason. While the hospital staff tried to stem the bleeding and did a CT scan, Govender died as his distraught family made arrangements to take him to a state facility, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, from where he was to have been transferred to Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital. “In the rush of getting the transfer in order he died,” family friend Pastor Mervyn Reddy told POST. Govender, of Rainham, Phoenix, is a nephew of prominent property developer Jay Singh and worked at his uncle’s business, Gralio Precast, as a construction site supervisor. Reddy said Govender and his fiancée, Charlene Moodley, had returned home to Phoenix after attending a church service on New Year’s Eve.  Shortly after midnight, he decided to visit his friend who lives in the neighbourhood. “The friend lives about five doors away from Keegan’s home and was ushering in the new year by shooting blank cartridges out of a gun, but unbeknown to the man and his group of friends, a bullet was lodged in the gun’s chamber,” alleged Reddy. As Govender was leaving the friend’s home after wishing him, the man allegedly fired another shot, releasing the bullet, said Reddy. “The bullet struck Keegan at the back of the head and he fell to the ground. The group of friends put him into their vehicle and drove him to (a private hospital) for treatment. Keegan’s family was having a braai when his nephew came to the house and told family what had transpired. They were frantic,” said Reddy. “Jay Singh is in Dubai and he contacted me to assist the family at the hospital. When I got to the hospital just after 1am we were dealt a double blow as the staff did not want to accept him, because he was not on medical aid but a cash patient.” Govender’s parents, Gansen, 61, and Kanaiamma, 57, are struggling to come to terms with his death. “We were outside that night and we did not even hear the gunshot because fireworks were going off,” said Gansen. “When I heard my son was shot I went cold. He had just left our home and within minutes he was taken from us. I could not believe what I was hearing and my wife was frantic.” He said Keegan was the family’s sole breadwinner. “Keegan did everything for us. I suffer from colon cancer and he would take me to every treatment. He was a loving, helpful person. I cannot believe that he is gone. We are all still in shock.” Gansen added: “How can people be so careless? Firearms are not something adults should be playing with. We want justice for my son’s killing.” A 41-year-old man has been charged with culpable homicide and is expected to appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court soon. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said the matter was being investigated by the Phoenix SAPS. The private hospital had not commented by time of publication. A spokesperson for the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Health, Desmond Motha, said private hospitals work as “separate entities”. “This is a sad situation,but it is not in our jurisdiction to intervene as we only oversee government hospitals.” POST