The trip to Margate at the weekend was to celebrate Lorraine Rampersadh’s 57th birthday on Sunday. But hours later, as they made their way back to their home in Pietermaritzburg, the family was involved in a horrific crash on the N2 near Umzumbe, south Durban.Jessy Mahabeer Rampersadh, her daughter Veroshnie Mahabeer, 34, son-in-law Mitchell Mahabeer, 43, their children Isabella, 11, Hannah, 7, Leah, 6, and Titus, 3, and their uncle ,  22, were  killed in the head-on collision. The family was travelling in a VW Golf and died on impact. The scene was so disturbing that relatives were told by police to avoid it. The driver of the other vehicle, a bakkie, escaped unharmed and was allegedly under the influence of alcohol. He was arrested and appeared in court on Tuesday. He was granted R5 000 bail and the case was adjourned to May. Rampersadh’s brother, Gerald Harry, said his family was left both devastated and dumbfounded. “Lorraine’s birthday was on Sunday and so they decided to treat her to a family getaway in Margate. I tried to call her to wish her a happy birthday, but I was unable to get through. Hours later I received a call from a relative informing me of their deaths. I was in total shock,” he said. “I stayed up the entire night thinking about the family, especially the children. I cannot believe their young lives were cut so short. Our entire family is 
at a loss for words. We cannot eat, sleep or even think straight.” He described the family as very close. “They shared a home in Mount View and did everything together. Veroshnie worked for an engineering company and Mitchell was a driver. Jessy was still studying.” The girls were pupils at Deccan Road Primary School. “Leah had just started Grade R and she was so excited to be in school. The girls were very sweet, respectful and well-mannered. Titus was a typical boy - full of energy, always laughing and playing around. They were the apple of their parents’ eyes.” Upon hearing that the driver of the bakkie 
was allegedly under the influence of alcohol, 
Rampersadh said he hoped he and others 
would learn from the family’s tragedy. “Drinking and driving causes harm to 
innocent people and if it is proven he was under 
the influence of alcohol, then I hope he gets the harshest punishment.” While funeral arrangements are being made, the cost for eight people is expected to be staggering. “Each funeral is expected to cost between R18 000 to R20 000 but the Department of Transport may step in to assist,” said Rampersadh. KZN Transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda expressed his dismay at the lawlessness on the roads and innocent lives being lost. “The driver of the bakkie was found to have (allegedly) consumed alcohol exceeding the legal limit,” he said. “I have instructed a team of forensic experts to fast-track investigations into the cause of this horrendous crash.” Kaunda said it is always worrying to experience a loss of so many lives in one crash. “It is mostly disturbing to note that four of the deceased are children whose future has been robbed due to negligence and lawlessness. "Our law enforcement agencies have been working around the clock prior to and during the festive season hype, and this was done to save lives and to deal with law breakers.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of culpable homicide was being investigated. POST