Durban - For Christie and Sarah Krishnan, their love increases with each passing day. Describing Sarah as the "yin to his yang", Krishnan, 73, said it was love at first sight for him, when he met his now wife of 50 years at a relative’s home in Ottawa. “She was 21 and the most beautiful girl I had laid my eyes on. She had an outgoing personality and it attracted me even more to her,” he said. Sarah, who lived in Overport, said: “My focus was not on getting married but he kept pursuing and phoning me and eventually, I agreed to meet him and now he is my life.” On December 25, 1966, after church service, Krishnan was invited to Sarah's home for lunch. “After lunch about eight of us decided to go to the beach and slowly everyone broke away in pairs until it was just the two of us. I then mustered up the courage and asked her to marry me,” he said. The smitten sales clerk called and visited her as often as he could. On October 28, 1967, they wed at Bethesda Church in Carlisle Street among family and friends. While 22-year-old Sarah wore a white sari, Krishnan opted for a pinstripe suit. The couple lived in Ottawa where Sarah raised their two sons, Basil Ashley and Deon Lesley Ashley. Krishnan said he was honoured to celebrate 50 years with his wife. “I keep falling in love with the same person. We seldom have arguments but when we do, we make up almost immediately. Love is more important than arguments.” A blushing Sarah added: “My husband has always been loving and supportive. He puts our family and God at the centre of everything. More especially, we have always loved and trusted each other.” The Krishnans have been attending Angelus Mission Church in Mount Edgecombe for 50 years. They enjoy holidaying at the Drakensberg, the South Coast and the United Kingdom, where Deon Lesley lives. The couple celebrated their anniversary by attending their nephew's wedding. “During the reception, my nephew called us out and honoured us, giving us a bouquet of flowers,” said Krishnan. POST