Durban - A TRAMPOLINE and playhouse lies covered in dust outside the home of the Mahabeer family, who tragically lost their lives after an alleged drunken driver ploughed into their VW Golf on the N2 near Umzumbe last Sunday. Lorraine Rampersadh, 57, her daughter, Veroshnie Mahabeer, 34, son-in-law, Mitchell Mahabeer, 43, their children, Isabella, 11, Hannah, 7, Leah, 6, and Titus, 3, and their uncle, Jesse Mahabeer, 22, died in the head-on collision. The Northdale, Pietermaritzburg, family, who were laid to rest on Friday, was returning to Pietermaritzburg after Lorraine’s birthday weekend celebrations on the South Coast. Vehicles and mourners, which included law enforcement officials, lined up along Khan Road during the mass funeral at the Aryan Hall to pay their respects. The couple's friend, who declined to be named, said they attended the same church and had planned on buying a bigger house. He described them as "a wonderful, caring family". The Head of Department at Springhaven Primary School, Shakun Naidoo, referred to the little girls, Isabella, Hannah and Leah, as angels. “Isabella was in Grade 6, Hannah was in Grade 2 and Leah was in Grade 1. When the two youngest walked into school, they would always be holding hands and loved playing with others. "Their parents were instrumental at the school; supporting all our fundraisers." The community, she said, was still reeling with shock. “Nothing like this has happened to any of our kids at the school and finding out it was these three children tore at our hearts. "We bused in older pupils for the funeral and before we left, the school caretaker made a bouquet and requested we place it near the girl. Our kids also formed a guard of honour as the (sealed) coffins passed them," she added in tears. Lorraine's brother, Gerald Harry, said: "Normally at funerals we mourn one person but here we are mourning a whole family. "Three families are affected by their passing and we are all heartsore. After a few days we will feel the true pain." The driver of the white single cab Ford Ranger, Anastasios Peyios, appeared in the Port Shepstone Magistrate’s Court last Tuesday. He was granted R5 000 bail and the case was adjourned to May. POST