Opinion - The dawning of 2018 brought with it a tragic reminder of the ubiquitous nature of violent crime when a teenager and her younger brother died after a rock was hurled into their vehicle from a bridge on the N2 near oThongathi (Tongaat). A spate of similar incidents followed. Like the placing of rocks on roads, this is not a new phenomenon and it is disgraceful that despite deaths, no preventive steps have been taken. Other types of violent crime are sure to continue during 2018, so the new year is a good time for all citizens to consider ways they can contribute to making South Africa safer, including by holding politicians accountable. ROCK-THROWING - A NEED FOR URGENT ACTION Among notorious areas are southern and northern stretches of the N2, including around the Durban interchange with the N3 and the N2 immediately north of the uThukela river. These attacks may or may not be organised. As with housebreaking, criminals may have no compunction in using children to assist them, the purpose being robbery of a vehicle’s occupants. However, drunk or drugged youths could also see rock-throwing as a macabre sport. Unless some sort of urgent action is taken, it is probably only a matter of time before more people are injured or die. The problem is that although some areas appear particularly vulnerable, these incidents can happen anywhere. While the recent focus has been mainly the northern N2 and nearby routes (for example the M4), what may be "copycat" incidents have also occurred near the N3 in Durban and Howick. Given the number of bridges in the province, there is no single solution to the problem and the sensible approach appears to prioritise particularly vulnerable areas in which there are bridges with easy access to large settlements. Obviously any preventive strategy should start with the proper policing in areas near road bridges (for motorists are not the only targets of criminals living in them - and members of these communities should be part of the solution). Also called for are patrols by road traffic police - which would also target errant drivers. At the very least, the railings of bridges should be sufficiently high and closely enough spaced to discourage the hurling of missiles, and complete mesh enclosure may be an option in particularly problematic areas. Travellers are most at risk at night and great vigilance is called for on their part when approaching bridges. Other options include installing lighting on bridges and patrols by security guards. The placement of CCTV cameras is unlikely to deter perpetrators (especially if they are wearing hooded jackets or balaclavas), who could simply melt away into the darkness after the crime is committed. SOCIO-ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL FACTORS IN CRIME In addressing solutions to the attacks on motorists, it is crucial to bear in mind that socio-economic factors, including the glaring inequalities between the "haves" and "have-nots", disempowered communities and fragmented families are major contributory factors to exceptionally high levels of violent crime. The vulnerability of the N2 north of Durban may be connected to the growth of wealthy suburbs, and the transit of tourists from King Shaka Airport, fuelling perceptions among impoverished youths of lucrative pickings from stranded motorists. Given these conditions, 2018 is also likely to see the continuation of protests linked to lack of service delivery and meaningful development plus corruption and lack of accountability by government representatives. There may be further politically-linked killings but, it must be stressed, these are frequently linked to corruption in local government. Of extremely serious concern is that those relatively few people who are risking their lives to expose corruption may be killed at any time, and it seems impossible to ensure their safety. The violence which targets motorists and households cannot be divorced from that which is endemic in many impoverished, under-developed areas, conditions in Glebelands hostel being a prime example. Corrupt policing and politicians have fuelled this violence, leading to the complex becoming a haven not only for hit men targeting taxi and political enemies, but also robbers, hijackers and truck-jackers. POLICING PROSPECTS FOR 2018 With National Police Day approaching on January 27, it is to be hoped that the management will deliver an encouraging message about planned improvements to the service. There has been an apparently major breakthrough by a new police team investigating carnage in Glebelands. The team has arrested a number of alleged hit men, as well as a police member who stands widely accused of supplying guns. Hopefully their case is a strong one and prosecution will be competent. The recent appointment of an experienced National SAPS Commissioner is a positive step for the SAPS as they have relied for too long on acting appointments. His priority should be to ensure that discipline - often seriously lacking - is instilled, and proper record-keeping adhered to. He will need to urgently address the issue of detective training and management and the de-politicisation of crime intelligence services, take speedy action against corruption and abuse and remind members that torture is a serious crime. Community members must continue to play an important part in policing through community policing forums, reservist activities and linking anti-crime community initiatives (such as those using WhatsApp systems) to local stations. It is crucial that community members support good police members - but also expose corruption and poor discipline among members. TOWARDS A PROACTIVE  CIVIL SOCIETY Our abnormally high levels of violent crime are but one of the symptoms of a governance crisis. Democracy is not only about voting; it needs a proactive citizenry which holds elected representatives at all three levels accountable. For example, there are councillors in all areas of rock-throwing (or protest). Demand to know from them what they are doing to improve conditions and policing in their areas and, if necessary, take matters further, including to provincial and national parliamentary bodies. Taxpayers fund their handsome salaries and perks - make them work for their money, including by reporting back to their constituencies. * Mary de Haas is a violence monitor and analyst POST