They were yellow, light blue and green. These colours refer to the chakras for the world as a collective energy. The yellow refers to the solar plexus and is linked to personal power and control. Political dictators in South America and Africa will assert themselves more but their power will be usurped because of new beginnings in leadership. North Africa, especially South Sudan, will battle severe economic challenges because it is the one country in the world ravaged by natural disaster as well as severe political unrest.  This has been the case since its independence in 2011. In South America, Venezuela’s economy will continue to shrink due to economic mismanagement. There will also be a lot of new political faces in South Africa. However, all is definitely not doom and gloom and we will improve the economy and hence cause for joy and celebration. KZN will benefit financially due to an increase in foreign interest and investment. The world will definitely have its eye on SA.  This is predominately due to the recent regime change and promising developments in Zimbabwe. Now more than ever, the world will focus on and expect SA to follow suit. However, we still have to battle with raging crime. Due to the chakra colour of light blue, which deals with logic, creativity and communication, there will be relief from the drought in the Western Cape due to positive action from locals and international aid.  This energy will also allow people to stand up against the disease of corruption and lawlessness in our country, because the common threat of a bigger issue like the drought and the consequences thereof will result in people helping each other.  This will bring about a greater sense of humanity. It will almost be reminiscent of the wonderful camaraderie and love we had for each other during the Fifa World Cup in 2010. Speaking of the World Cup, there will be lots of interest, passion and focus on next year’s host country Russia.  The spectacle will bring joy to millions and will be a means of taking people’s minds off the more mundane aspects of life. The green refers to love and compassion and here I see Mother Earth using natural disasters to draw the various communities of the world together and come to one another’s assistance. The world will still see its fair share of natural disasters but these are actually a way for the earth to renew itself and to prepare for future generations. The disaster and volcanic eruptions in Bali are to teach people to be aware of the power of the earth and be mindful not to ignore the signs.  The  energies of the Magician as well as Justice have come up side-by-side, which means the brewing conflict between the Donald Trump administration and North Korea will be resolved without loss of life. By and large there will definitely be more to celebrate than mourn in 2018 and if everybody is positive and focused on the good, they will have so much more to look forward to as the year progresses. God bless and take care.  *  MG, fortune teller and life coach. POST