Durban - Hijackers who had the gall to strike twice in the same neighbourhood in a matter of days - using the same car they had stolen the first time - met their match in a new band of community members who refuse to accept crime as a way of life. A fiery shootout in Northcroft, Phoenix on Friday night saw one suspect dead and two behind bars. A fourth managed to escape the clutches of the local neighbourhood watch, which was formed just three months ago. Its members have been hailed as heroes by crime-weary residents. Their proactive stance and vigilance had prevented another hijacking in the area and possibly deaths, said residents. Friday’s incident took place two roads away from where a motorist visiting relatives was hijacked last Monday. His silver Hyundai i20 was taken and a neighbour, Sumith Maharaj, 24, who went to help, was was shot in the stomach by the hijackers. The same car was used in Friday’s incident, said a relative of the owner. “It is extremely scary knowing they were brave enough to come back to the same area a week later,” he said. The suspects “deserved what they got”. The neighbourhood watch spokesperson, who declined to be named, said: “Every Friday, we have shift meetings and members were making their way to a home in the area for the meeting. "One member had just parked his VW Polo on the roadside and was getting out when a silver Hyundai i20 pulled up near him.” He said the member, who declined to be interviewed, saw an armed man walking towards him. “Another member, whose home was being used to host the meeting, heard a scream and went outside to investigate. When he realised what was happening, he also shouted at the hijacker, who in turn began firing at them.” A roadside shootout ensued between the hijacker and crime fighters. The hijacker’s accomplices - the driver and two passengers - still inside the car, were caught off guard. The driver attempted to flee but was shot dead as he drove into a fence. His injured passengers were apprehended by members of the neighbourhood watch, while waiting for the police to arrive. The armed hijacker managed to flee. The spokesperson encouraged other residents to join them in the fight against crime instead of remaining armchair critics. “On Friday, we became heroes in our area because we all came together to eliminate wrongdoing,” he said. A nearby resident said one of the bullets struck her home’s ceiling. “I am grateful no one was in the room when this happened. Someone could have been seriously hurt.” Meanwhile, Maharaj’s mother, Priscilla, said he was recovering in ICU at hospital. Her older son, Kerosh, 27, who was stabbed by robbers at a service station shop on the same day his sibling was shot, was discharged from hospital. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of attempted hijacking was being investigated. An inquest docket was also opened. DA ward councillor Tino Pillay applauded residents and members of the neighbourhood watch, whom he said had intercepted and foiled a hijacking. He said it was only through community intervention that crime could decrease. “Indians are passive and that makes them easy targets for criminals,” he said. “We need people to be the eyes and ears of their areas to move crime out.” POST