Durban - When Professor Jonathan Jansen, the former vice-chancellor of the University of Free State, writes or speaks about compelling and pertinent issues confronting our country, people pay careful attention. When he chooses to address the issue of education specifically, his word carries a mountain of weight. Such is the stature and reputation of the man who has, over the years, become a household name in the country for his candid and critical commentary on South African affairs. As an educationist, he boasts a formidable track record. At the University of Free State, he was widely respected for his efforts in transformation and reconciling communities living with the legacy of apartheid and racial separation. So, when someone of his calibre and reputation sounds out a caution that forces undermining campuses in the country are leading to the end of South African universities, his words have to be taken seriously. The dire warning - in the second release of his book As By Fire - comes against the background of a deepening crisis at universities after last year’s violent protests against fee increases, which shut down many institutions of higher learning. Jansen’s concerns are not just limited to student demonstrations and protests. He is also worried about chronic underfunding of tertiary institutions by the state, the chronic instability on campuses and the future autonomy of universities. “When these conditions prevail, it doesn’t take long for universities to collapse,” he warned. Universities will no longer have a vibrant academic culture. As strikes and student protests crippled the University of South Africa (Unisa) and Durban University of Technology (DUT) last week, thousands of young students in all communities who successfully completed matric are looking around apprehensively about what to expect in the first year of their tertiary education. They realise the protesters have legitimate grievances but are hoping the turmoil on campus will not rob them of their opportunity to study towards a tertiary degree or diploma that will help them launch their careers. Like many other concerned South Africans, Jansen is hoping the new ANC leadership under Cyril Ramaphosa will act swiftly and decisively to facilitate an urgent settlement between government, the universities and students. The consequences of any further delays are just too disastrous to even contemplate. Jansen’s plea is one this newspaper fully identifies with: “Don’t burn the house we live in.” POST