Opinion - My mother is a beautiful, vibrant, energetic 60-year-old woman. She is still serving the community as a psychiatric specialist after three decades. She is also a widow, having lost my father to cancer 15 years ago. In a recent conversation I said to her that she needs to think about getting a companion, with whom to spend her twilight years when she retires. When she finally picked her jaw off the floor, her response to me were the words I have come to detest: “Oh my God, what would people think?” Notwithstanding having an evolved daughter, who constantly and repeatedly lectures her about changing her antiquated ways of thinking, within seconds, she defaults to the conditioned way in which we have been raised to think. I know that my mother is not isolated here. I am well aware of people in my own generation who subscribe to this mentality. It’s a prescribed mandate for being Indian. The “what would people think” manifesto gets signed and accepted upon birth. It is the bane of my existence, which I have furiously rebelled against. I also had a conversation recently with a relative who “kindly” advised me against getting married again because I have children and that should be enough. I decided to pick my battle that day, and it was just not worth it to hurl profanities in the face of ignorance. She brought a knife to a gunfight. But it got me thinking. When is it ever okay to tell someone else how to live? Who made the decision that love or feelings have cut-off dates? Who said that after a certain age love is not a requirement? Why do we, as Indians, hold the belief that our lives need to be defined exclusively as parents or grandparents? Are we not men and women first? So many people have mastered the insidious act of pretending. A game that becomes a way of life, where the truth about being lonely or having a longing for love or a real desire for a different life is considered an act of rebellion. The “what would people think mentality” is a way of keeping us confined and brainwashed into conditioned ways of behaving and thinking, with no room for self-expression or honesty. I have seen people who are desperate to have love, friendship and companionship but fall prey to the imposed belief that they’re too old and therefore their truth is negated. I have seen people who are desperately unhappy within their marriages, suffocating under the illusion that has been created but who are too afraid to be honest because what will people think? I have seen couples who are wildly in love, but their love defies convention, so their happiness is sacrificed because what will people think? Through my years of self-discovery, I have spent a long time “unbecoming”. It’s a process of self-actualisation where my truth is absolute and completely subjective. I no longer make my life a democracy because it does not make sense to me to have someone else prescribe the journey of my life, when it’s a journey to a destination they have no clue about. When I took on the role of truth-teller, I promised myself that I would honour myself, my journey and my heart by always and forever being true to what my feelings are and what is real for me. The “what would people think” mentality flew out the window when I faced death and realised the importance of authenticity. I gained a new perspective when I watched all of those people around me, the ones who judged me, live entirely fraudulent lives, while I was preparing to kill myself as a result of it. When my suicide attempt failed, my entire life changed and the first thing I did was choose to live a life that made me happy. I would never sacrifice that again in the pursuit of being accepted by a society that does little for me. When it comes to love, it is a never-ending desire for humans to seek connection. It is what differentiates us from animals. We ought to hold a reverence to it and accept the invitation to love with open arms. More than that, we need to love ourselves enough to start learning how to speak our truth and that means identifying that society is a puppeteer whom we’ve willingly subjugated our freedom for. “What would people think” has reached its expiry date and it’s time for a new dawn. We’ve long been spectators in our own lives. It’s time to reclaim our power and do what truly makes us happy, with no thought about how that would be received by others. This is where true freedom reigns. And this lesson can be learnt at any age. Just ask my mother. * Tivania Moodley is a Johannesburg-based author, business-writer, copy-editor and single mother of two. POST