Opinion - This column was intended to be on new beginnings, but that is so clichéd.
After all, every January we make promises of change, of cutting back on spending, studying harder and of new resolutions. Instead, I thought to use the term desired “outcome” - what is it I want to see at the end of this month, then next month and at the end of this year. Small steps to achieving world peace. This column is for our young people (who can show us older folk a few tricks to live smarter). It goes like this: And so we have come to the beginning of another school year, filled with hope to pass all subjects with distinction, a time to renew friendships and meet new teachers and new peers. This is a nervous yet exciting time of the year. But around you, a lot is going on. At home it is a difficult time for your folks. Right now your parent is wondering how he or she will survive the longest two months of the year, January and February. The debt from the Christmas gifts, the school fees that must be paid, your school uniforms, school books, your “must-haves” for those ballet and hockey lessons that you will hardly attend. We see our parents as ATMs (like the ones we have at the actual bank), where instead of a plastic card, you just need to throw a tantrum in front of your parent while the neighbours and Joneses are present, and voilà! Your parent gets into more debt to feed your tantrums. And this is where we start with our desired outcome (let’s call it “do” for short). Do 1: Our first desired outcome is a peaceful and happy home. Show respect to your parents when they tell you they cannot afford it just yet. Do 2: Don’t throw tantrums like a baby. You are a young person, who knows right from wrong. Do 3: Put a ceiling on your desires. There is no need for branded items when a non-branded one will do, and is probably more durable and of better quality. Do 4: Do not be afraid of meeting the teacher to ask if you really need those branded roll-up crayons when other ones are cheaper. Ask about alternatives. Do 5: At home, be the best you can be. Show respect. Wake up with a smile, greet your family with a smile, wish them a happy day before you leave for school or work. Help out at home, clear the table after dinner, wash the dishes. Most importantly, do this with a smile and not grudgingly. Do 6: Help out at home without expectation of a reward, after all, you live there too. Don’t throw your clothes on the floor, fold your clothes neatly and keep your study table and wardrobe neat. Wipe your shoes before you enter the house. Clean up the bathroom after you, so that the next person admires how neat you left the bathroom. Do 7: Have a set time for study and a set time for TV. Others also live in the same house and don’t want to watch the mindless cartoons that you like. Do 8: Make up your bed every morning. This is such a cool habit and will help you get order in your day. Don’t let others make your bed for you. Learn how to make the neatest bed ever. It will help you when you get to boarding school, or to the army later. At this point I am reminded of my daughter, who always said: “But mom, rooms are for free expressions not good impressions.” True, and free expressions can be clean and neat spaces too. And so we get to your school. Over the past year I spent long hours observing how hard your teachers and cleaning staff work cleaning up after you. They are older than your own parents and grandparents, yet they are expected to clean up the mess that you leave in the toilets, pick up the sandwich that you dropped on the stairways, wipe up the juice you spilt carelessly in the hall, and keep safe your jacket that you carelessly left behind after soccer practice. Do 9: Show respect for your teachers and cleaning staff at school. They work hard just for you, and only you. But they are not your servants. Keep to the school rules as it is meant to keep you safe from harm and make sure you get a good education in a safe and clean environment conducive to education. Do 10. Don’t break school rules because it means detention, and a call to your parent. Do 11: Have you ever sat at a desk that was smelly and had vulgar words written on it? Or had chewing gum stuck underneath? Or got a textbook with scribbles all over it? Do take care of what you use at school, after all you are just borrowing that desk and space for the year. Next year someone else will borrow it. Give it back in the condition that you would like to receive it. Being a young person is tough work. Soon you will outgrow school and be making plans to get to university or get a job. But until then, you are on a journey of self-discovery. On this journey you will meet many people, many of whom will be what we call wolves in sheep’s clothing. This means that people with bad intentions will befriend you and you won’t know that they want to get you into drugs until its too late. And you will want to always fit in with the cool crowd, or do things because it’s the cool thing to do. Always choose good over bad. As the saying goes, may you have the wisdom to know the difference between right and wrong behaviour, good and bad friends, and respect and lack of self-respect. I wish that you have a safe, enjoyable and fruitful year. * Varoshini Nadesan is a lecturer at the University of Johannesburg POST