KEEP CLEAN: * Wash your hands before handling food and often during food preparation. * Wash your hands after going to the toilet. * Wash and sanitise all surfaces and equipment used for food preparation. * Protect kitchen areas and food from insects, pests and other animals. Why: While most micro-organisms do not cause disease, dangerous micro-organisms are widely found in soil, water, animals and people. These micro-organisms are carried on hands, wiping cloths and utensils, especially cutting boards and the slightest contact can transfer them to food and cause food-borne diseases. SEPARATE RAW AND COOKED: * Separate raw meat, poultry and seafood from other foods. * Use separate equipment and utensils such as knives and cutting boards for handling raw foods. * Store food in containers to avoid contact between raw and prepared foods. Why: Raw food, especially meat, poultry and seafood, and its juices, can contain dangerous micro-organisms, which may be transferred on to other foods during food preparation and storage. COOK THOROUGHLY: * Cook food thoroughly, especially meat, poultry, eggs and seafood. * Bring foods like soups and stews to boiling point to make sure they have reached 70ºC. * For meat and poultry, make sure that its juices are clear, not pink. Ideally, use a thermometer. * Reheat cooked food thoroughly. Why: Proper cooking kills almost all dangerous micro-organisms. Studies have shown that cooking food to a temperature of 70ºC can help ensure it is safe for consumption. Foods that require special attention include minced meats, rolled roasts, large joints of meat and whole poultry. KEEP FOOD AT SAFE TEMPERATURES: * Do not leave cooked food at room temperature for more than two hours. * Refrigerate promptly all cooked and perishable food (preferably below 5ºC). * Keep cooked food piping hot (more than 60ºC) prior to serving. * Do not store food too long even in the refrigerator. Do not thaw frozen food at room temperature. Why: Micro-organisms can multiply quickly if food is stored at room temperature. By holding at temperatures below 5ºC or above 60ºC, the growth of micro-organisms is slowed down or stopped. Some dangerous micro-organisms still grow below 5ºC. USE SAFE WATER AND RAW MATERIALS: * Use safe water or treat it to make it safe. * Select fresh and wholesome foods. * Choose foods processed for safety, such as pasteurised milk. * Wash fruit and vegetables, especially if eaten raw. * Do not use food beyond its expiry date. Why: Raw materials, including water and ice, may be contaminated with dangerous micro-organisms and chemicals. Toxic chemicals may be formed in damaged and mouldy foods. Take care in selection of raw materials, and simple measures such as washing and peeling may reduce the risk. POST