It is alleged that while on the way to work at 7.15am, the 37-year-old Crossmoor woman used a road, known for frequent hijackings, in a bid to beat the morning traffic. She was accosted by two armed men on Ukuthula Street, a road that branches off Hans Dettman Highway near Wingen Heights Secondary. The Shallcross Sector Policing Forum said the victim, who was alone in her vehicle, was stopped at a stop sign when two men approached her window and one pointed a firearm at her. They demanded she hand over her belongings and step out of the vehicle. A tussle ensued after she refused to hand over a set of bank keys that were in her bag. The robbers hit her three times with the butt of a gun, threw her on the side of the road and sped off. Shallcross Community Police Forum (CPF) chairperson Mahendra Lillkan said the attack took place in full view of passers-by who refused to help, except for one good Samaritan. “It is sad to see people just walk or drive by when someone is in need of help. If at least 
10 vehicles stopped to help this lady, these guys would have thought twice before going through with the hijacking.” The selfless woman reported the incident on crime groups, saying it was disappointing to see that she was the only one who stopped to help. “The road was very busy. There were lots of pedestrians and kids. It was sad to know that my family and I were the only ones who assisted her,” she wrote. “She was thrown to the side of the road and other drivers drove away.” She said the victim was bleeding and dazed when she found her. “Unfortunately, she cancelled Tracker last week. The hijackers were ruthless and didn’t care that kids were around. "They drove off at high speed from St Wendolins towards Mariannhill. It was scary and traumatising. I will not be using that route again. Hans Dettman is safer. The hijackers fled with the victim’s black VW Polo Vivo, her handbag that contained her Vodafone Tab, her bank keys and her wallet containing cards and cash. She was taken to Life Chatsmed Garden Hospital. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that Mariannhill SAPS was 
investigating. “No arrests have been made and investigations are still 
continuing.” Lillkan said the CPF had been warning residents for a long time to avoid the area. “We have continuously warned people about the risks in using that way, to no avail. Rather leave home earlier to beat the traffic than trying to beat the traffic by using unsafe routes. The traumatised victim declined to speak to POST about her ordeal. POST