Durban - Old graves in Durban are to be dug up and the remains moved to smaller plots to make way for new burials. The drastic measure, set to take effect in March, is the eThekwini Municipality’s plan to deal with the lack of new cemetery space. POST reported in November that municipal grave space would have been all used up by the end of 2017 and now cemeteries boss Thembinkosi Ngcobo has confirmed this. While his department was still finalising a deal to buy land on the KZN North and South Coast in order to build new cemeteries, he said the city had identified 65 old graveyards which they plan to reopen. Ngcobo was approached to comment on the possible use of the abandoned Seaview Hindu Cemetery, which a local resident said had space available but was overrun by bush and squatters. “We are looking at old cemeteries like the one in Seaview and we plan on removing the old remains and relocating them to small graves,” said Ngcobo. “Our pilot project will start soon with the Loon Road Cemetery (in Sherwood) and we intend on rolling out at the other cemeteries.” In all, 11 000 grave sites will be opened, the bodies exhumed and relocated to smaller spaces in the cemetery as part of the pilot project. Families have been consulted and the provincial government has given the City permission to conduct the mass exhumation, Ngcobo said. The 65 cemeteries are between 80 and 100 years old and contain about 550 000 graves. Ngcobo explained that a grave is leased to a family for 10 years. Five months before the lease expires, families are notified and can decide whether they want to keep the graves or not. If they don’t respond, the graves are reused. Seaview resident Yunus Mahomed said he had “stumbled” upon the old Hindu cemetery while searching for land to build a mosque. Aware of the dire need for burial space in eThekwini, he said he had made an urgent appeal to the City to have the cemetery reopened for public use. But his cries for help had fallen on deaf years, Mahomed said. “In 2005 I attended a community meeting about acquiring a piece of land in Seaview to build a mosque. At this meeting I was informed that prior to the Group Areas Act the area was occupied predominately by Indians and that the community had built a temple in the area, as well as a cemetery.” Mahomed said when the act was enforced by the apartheid government, families had no choice but to leave their homes - leaving the remains of their loved ones behind. “Since 2005 I have been searching for families who lived on the land and looking for proof of an actual cemetery. I met a teacher who informed me that his sister was buried at the cemetery and a man by the name of JN Reddy used to help run the cemetery.” Mahomed said it took him some time, but he had managed to track down the Reddy family and was referred to JN’s brother MN Reddy, who lived in Silverglen. “I met with MN Reddy and he confirmed that a cemetery was on the vacant land, but it ceased to operate when the Indians were asked to vacate the Seaview area in the early 1960s under the Group Areas Act.” Mahomed said that MN Reddy had also given him a City letter, dated July 10, 1939, granting permission to use the land as a cemetery, “I have taken all the information and handed it over to the eThekwini Municipality, appealing to them to look at reopening the cemetery, but I have not received any feedback. “I also submitted my findings to the KZN Funeral Directors’ Association.” A frustrated Mahomed said the plot of land was big and could be divided between the different faiths for use - but no one seemed interested. “How can we complain about the lack of burial space when there is space available? The municipality needs to relocate the squatters and reopen this grave site.” Ngcobo denied any knowledge of Mahomed’s appeal, but said the City was forging ahead with its pilot project to reuse graves. Logan Chetty of the KZN Funeral Directors’ Association said they would be looking into the matter. POST