Durban - For centuries it has been a tradition for Hindu brides to be adorned with mehndi on their hands and feet but local mehndi artist Therusha Chetty has put a twist on the tradition by embossing her designs on canvas, jewellery boxes and more recently, takkies. Chetty, 23, from Seatides, who is a student chiropractor at the Durban University of Technology, started applying mehndi as a “hobby” while still in school. “I was 16 when I started doing the designs for my family and friends, and they simply loved it. "So when I matriculated in 2012 from Seatides Combined School, I decided to turn my hobby into a small part-time business to earn some money while I studied.” This saw the birth of Desi Designs by Therusha, and while doing mehndi on the hands and feet of brides and their family was fun, her creativity and love for art soon took over, inspiring her to use the mehndi in other ways. “At first I used it to add designs to jewellery boxes and wedding trays. One day I had some mehndi left over after doing a job, and being the curious person I am, I wanted to see what my designs would look like on canvas.” “So I painted a design on the canvas and needless to say I was completely blown away by the beauty of the design and the way the mehndi mixed with the canvas.” Chetty, who is also a Bharatanatyam dancer with Rampage Dance Company, said in 2016 she was given the opportunity to give an exhibition at the Playhouse. “My dance company hosted a production called Naach, which is a celebration of art, and my teacher, Iqraam Rahin, suggested I exhibit my work. People were blown away by the designs and some even offered to purchase the artwork.” This year Chetty started doing designs on Tomy Takkies. “I looked at my white pair and I thought they were boring, so I decided to spruce them up with my henna designs. I used white and natural mehndi, which is applied to the shoe. "Then it's coated with vanish to give it a shine and water-proofed so it won't smudge.” Chetty posted pictures of her takkies on Facebook and Instagram and received a number of orders. “My business has taken off. I can't actually keep up with my orders. I cannot believe something as simple as mehndi has become so lucrative.” POST