Durban - A former navy seaman who was allegedly robbed at a Durban tavern went on the rampage at the weekend, shooting the owner - a former police captain - and three patrons before apparently hanging himself. 
Samadevan “Roger” Moonsamy had allegedly sought revenge after police failed to investigate the robbery at the Newlands West tavern in November, his family believes. After the Saturday evening shooting, Moonsamy, 54, who worked as a truck driver after being retrenched from the navy, fled to his home in nearby Hillgrove, where he allegedly hanged himself from the burglar bars in the lounge, using a rope. It is alleged that he had earlier arrived at the Briardale Tavern and opened fire with a pistol, shooting the owner, Philip Ramdhani, 54, a former captain at the Greenwood Park police station, and the three patrons whom he believed had robbed him. Ramdhani was shot in the arm and a bullet grazed his forehead.  One of the patrons sustained a gunshot wound to the stomach, another was shot in the leg and the third in the chest.  The three are in a stable condition. A police source claimed the father of three had an altercation with the three patrons at the tavern in November. “It is alleged the three patrons assaulted him and stole his motorbike and he vowed to get revenge. About two weeks ago, he had another altercation with one of them at the tavern and he threatened yet again to get revenge.” The source said Moonsamy opened fire on the trio from the parking lot before going into the tavern and shooting the owner. “He fled the scene and it was later discovered that he committed suicide by hanging himself.” Shooting rampage 'avoidable' Ramdhani said he did not know about the altercation but felt lucky to be alive. “While in the tavern, I heard loud sounds and thought it was fireworks. I then saw some of the patrons fall to the floor. I thought it was a robbery and I did the same.” The father of three added that seconds later, he heard a loud bang and felt a sharp pain and numbness in his right hand. “I had been shot and was bleeding. I also felt something hit my forehead. Using whatever strength I had, I managed to run and hide in the bathroom. From there I phoned my business partner (Viren Bramdhew), who took me to a hospital where I underwent an emergency operation to my arm.” He is now undergoing physiotherapy.  “Although I am in a stable condition physically, mentally I am still in shock and am undergoing counselling to help deal with the trauma,” he said. During the incident, all he could think about was his family and grandchild, Ramdhani said.  “I had seen the shooter only a few times at the tavern. I had no knowledge of him having had an altercation with the other victims. Viren and I opened the tavern 12 years ago and this is the first time something like this has happened. We were, however, robbed five years ago.” Moonsamy’s brother-in-law, Reggie Pillay, said police needed to take responsibility for the shooting because they failed to do their job.  “After being robbed and assaulted by the patrons, he contacted the Newlands East SAPS for assistance. A van picked him up and they were meant to take him to the station to open a case, but he did not have his identity document with him. The officers took him to his home to fetch the ID but they left him,” said Pillay.  He said the next day Moonsamy went to the station on his own with his ID and opened a case.  “Roger gave the police all the information on the suspects, but they failed to investigate or take them in for questioning. All that anger and frustration started to build up inside him and he decided to get his own justice.” Pillay said this could have been avoided if police had done their jobs. He described Moonsamy, who was separated from his wife, as a “headstrong” person who joined the SA Navy at the age of 16 and served as a seaman for a decade.  His funeral is expected to take place today (Wednesday). Residents, who requested anonymity, said they were concerned about their safety. “There are a number of taverns operating in residential areas in Newlands West and this poses a risk in terms of safety. When people are under the influence of alcohol, they are not in the right frame of mind and can do anything,” said a mother of three. “What if a stray bullet hit a resident or a child?”   Another resident said: “These incidents could be avoided if the government banned taverns operating in residential areas. Giving residents easy access to alcohol is our downfall.” Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said four counts of attempted murder were being investigated.  POST