Durban - Dressed in a fashionable suit and crisp white shirt, Omesh Ramnarain, charged with culpable homicide in connection with the deaths of two cyclists in 2016, listened attentively and took notes while seated in the dock of the Durban Regional Court last week. State witnesses took to the stand to give their account of the events that led to the deaths of Richard da Silva, 46, and Jared Dwyer, 36, on the Ruth First Freeway (M4 Northern Freeway). Ramnarain is accused of driving his black VW Golf GTi into the cyclists, while allegedly under the influence of alcohol. At the start of the trial last Monday, the 33-year-old pleaded not guilty before magistrate Anand Maharaj. His lawyer, Murray Pitman, read out his plea statement to the court. In the statement, Ramnarain said he denied all allegations and charges against him. “During my visit to Rocca Bar I consumed a total of four Hunters Gold drinks and had left the club at approximately 4.50am,” he said. “Whilst sitting at the bar, a patron had spilt their drink on me. I returned to my car to wipe my hands and shirt with wet wipes kept in the car. "I was not under the influence of alcohol when I left the club and drove myself and friend on to the M4 toward uMhlanga Rocks.” His statement further read that before the crash, he was travelling at approximately 100km/* in the right lane when a car overtook him in the left lane. Believing that he may have been holding up traffic, he moved into the left lane. As he rounded the corner approaching the Swapo Road (Broadway) off-ramp, the car which had overtaken him, he said, was a few metres ahead of him. He said he did not see any cyclists on the road between them. “After the car had almost passed the Swapo Road (formerly Broadway Road) off-ramp, it suddenly swerved left toward the glide-off, moving on to the glide-off at the last possible moment,” he said in the statement. “I continued straight in my lane and moments later heard a loud bang and my windscreen shattered. I braked and moved toward the left and heard another bang. I could not see out of my smashed windscreen after that.” The State’s first witness, James Murray, told the court that he had been driving his SUV heading north on the M4 when a black GTi travelling at “great speed” passed him. There was also another light-coloured vehicle travelling at a similar speed as the GTi, he added. Murray told the court that after travelling a short distance, a man flagged him down. When he stopped, the man told him what had happened with the cyclists and the GTi, he said. He told the court he had then approached the GTi, which was then stationary, to find out if everyone was okay. “When I had asked if he (Ramnarain) was all right, he kept saying, ‘I was going straight I was going straight’” He added that he could also smell alcohol on the accused. On Tuesday, a hospital doctor, Mtheteli Ndlangisa, who had examined Ramnarain, said the accused had been “moderately drunk”. Ramnarain had shown symptoms of someone that had been consuming alcohol, he said. “He had red eyes, his tongue had been dry, his face appeared to be flushed. He also seemed to be mildly disorientated and had unequal reflexes. However, his speech was normal and he was able to walk without staggering, and had said he taken medication for an allergy the previous day.” When asked if the alcohol smell could have emanated from Ramnarain’s clothes, Ndlangisa responded it was from his breath. Pitman said the symptoms reported could have been from the allergy which his client had been experiencing just 24 hours before the accident. Another witness, cyclist Alan Clark, told the court he had heard both the deceased laughing and talking before the accident. Minutes later he heard a crash and had initially thought a vehicle had hit a barrier. “I immediately stopped and jumped off my bicycle. When I turned around I saw two people airborne, flying past me; one was like a rag doll. A black GTi then came to a standstill in front of the bodies.” Clark said he knew they must have been dead as neither of them moved. Warrant Officer Bongani Gasa, of the SAPS Accident Combating Unit, told the court that the “point of impact” was in the emergency lane. He estimated that the car had been travelling at above average speed because of the amount of damage on impact. Pitman said a photograph of the accident scene showed what appeared to be a rock or stone. He asked Gasa if he knew where it had come from or if it had hit the car’s windscreen. Gasa said he did not, while conceding that Ramnarain’s windscreen was indeed shattered, and that there was a hole in it. He was also adamant that he had seen and spoken to Ramnarain that morning and he smelt of alcohol. However, Pitman told the court that his client had said he had not seen the officer that morning. The trial is set to continue in March. POST