Opinion - Comparisons by race is odious in a country that still bears the deep and shameful scars of apartheid. But to make a point, it is sometimes necessary to separate people racially. Over the past few years, a tiny fraction of black pupils- a smaller percentage than there are fingers on one hand - have passed higher grade mathematics. In contrast, an estimated 25% of Indian pupils pass higher grade maths each year. Pro rata, Indian pupils also get more distinctions overall than their black brethren. Yet the racial quota system at the University of KwaZulu-Natal’s Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine is so skewed that of the total number of places reserved for first-year medical students, almost 70% are for blacks and 19% for Indians. Also, Indians have to attain at least 90% pass in five matric subjects to get in whereas the entry pass level for blacks is considerably lower. Black applicants need only meet the minimum requirements for entry to be offered places. The places left for Indian applicants are, in contrast, heavily over-subscribed. This means, broadly speaking, that while blacks can gain acceptance to medical school with B or C aggregates and passes in mathematics and science, Indians need A aggregates before they are considered for admission. And because the number of Indians who pass with distinction is so high, many who aspire to study medicine cannot get a place once the racial quota has been reached. This matter has been in court many times, without the desired outcome. In building my case, I am ignoring the fact that there are unscrupulous, despicable and dodgy beings who have resorted to buying and selling seats at the UKZN medical school as if they were trading in sev and nuts, bhajia and boondi in the Grey Street complex. While hopeless circumstances often call for desperate measures, there can be no excuse for greed and dishonesty. Since the late 1990s, university medical faculties have been under pressure from the minister of health to make the racial composition of their first-year intake to medicine conform to society’s demographics as a whole. But at what cost? Are the majority of students who are enrolled for medicine capable of high academic performance? Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga beamed proudly when she announced the 2017 matric results a fortnight ago, saying there had been a 75.1% pass rate. The sad reality is she played with the numbers. The real pass rate, taking into account the almost 50% dropout, was closer to 37%. The pass rate reflects only the performance of those learners who managed to stay in school for 12 years and ignores the hundreds of thousands who dropped out along the way. Of the almost one million childrens who entered Grade 2, just close to 600000 registered for matric in 2017 and about 534000 sat for the exams. This puts the dropout rate at close to 45%. Mixing politics with medical school admissions will only produce ineffective muti to deal with the country’s serious health problems. In closing the door on brilliant, career-hungry young Indians who want to study medicine, the country is losing the opportunity to produce excellent doctors locally to serve the nation. Thus hundreds of diligent and passionate Indian students affected by the quota system are forced to study medicine in foreign countries, such as China, Mauritius and India, because of the limited number of places available at South African universities. Many hundreds more, who inwardly yearn to become doctors, choose alternative careers because of the difficulties of studying in destinations far from the comforts and conveniences of home. Thankfully, lessening the hardships of studying abroad with its attendant language and cultural barriers and the lack of a trusted support system is top of the list of things recently retired cop Bala Naidoo wants to dig his teeth into. The genial, easy-going and popular policeman (we affectionately refer to each other as “Marm” - Tamil for uncle) hung up his cap for the last time after 41 years during which he climbed to the rank of major-general. While Naidoo excelled as the communications link between the men in blue and the public, he now sees himself playing a much bigger role in resolving pressing issues plaguing the community. “It pains me that hundreds of young men and women must endure great difficulties while studying abroad to realise their dreams of becoming doctors only because of the quota system and the disruptions of #FeesMustFall protests. “I have committed myself to do whatever is possible to lessen the burden of these enthusiastic youths whose only goal is to be of service to their fellow South Africans,” said Naidoo. He has thrown his weight behind a Chinese duo, Nelson Chen and Josh Xiao, who run the Durban-based Shu De Chinese Language and Culture Centre, which was founded in June 2013 as the first Chinese school in KwaZulu-Natal. Apart from teaching Mandarin and Chinese culture to 120 Chinese children and 500 local pupils from several high schools, the centre has introduced a service for those who want to study medicine at Chinese universities. Chen, who came to Durban as a businessman 14 years ago, said he had met many Indian parents who would like their children to study medicine in China, but were discouraged by the logistics of enrolling at a foreign university. He and his friend Xiao decided to ease the way for local students wanting to pursue medical studies in China. They discussed the matter with Naidoo, who they knew from their work with the police combating crime affecting the local Chinese community. “Major-General Naidoo promised us his wholehearted support and this gave us great confidence,” said Chen. Decrying the “Made in China” stereotyping about inferior academic standards, he said China had many reputable universities for studying medicine and the fees were lower than their South African counterparts. However, there were some hurdles local students would have to overcome. Xiao said basic knowledge of Mandarin was compulsory. His centre runs a Chinese language course over 10 sessions. The centre also handles the complete university application process through one of three hand-picked institutions where the environment and climate is suitable for South African students, especially those from Durban. Visa and bank account applications will also be taken care of. Xiao said another useful offering for local students was the course on Chinese culture. Stressing that China is not a new kid on the block, but is in fact a country that is thousands of years old and steeped in history and culture, he said it helped to understand the etiquette and philosophical beliefs that influence daily life. Apart from giving you an insight into the history of China, the climate and terrain, day-to-day life in China, regional cuisines and how to eat with chopsticks, business etiquette, religions in China and Chinese views on gender and family, the culture course also touches on Chinese tea culture which passes on the spirit of the Chinese traditional culture to the future generations. Chen said the most important aspect of their services was the 24/7 support system provided in South Africa and in China to give parents and their children total peace of mind. “We will offer assistance, advice, guidance and tips to make studying in China a breeze,” said the ever-smiling Xiao, who may be reached at: 469555460@qq.com For Naidoo, securing a Chinese support system is one box ticked. He will now pursue similar support systems for students who want to study in India and Mauritius (at many medical colleges, bribery and corruption would appear to form part of the curriculum) . We wish the good cop well. He has the right medicine to tackle the chronic quota problem. * Yogin Devan is a media consultant and social commentator. Share your comments with him on: yogind@meropa.co.za POST