It often has a grand expectation on my part like, "This year I’m going to talk less." Much to my husband’s disappointment, that has never happened!  With fitness, it is something you consciously need to set out to do.  You need to allocate time in your day that best suits your lifestyle and home life.  Thereafter, decide on the type of exercise you wish to participate  in whether it be cycling, running, swimming, aerobics, boot camp, yoga, pilates or the gym.  Joining the gym is not a bad idea as it offers all of the above under one roof.  Varying your exercise programme is great as it challenges various muscle groups and creates some excitement in your routine.  Nowadays we are so lucky in that we have so many various disciplines to enjoy dependent on your fitness goals.  Boot camp or interval training is definitely one of my favourite methods as it combines both weight and cardiovascular training.  This type of training is excellent for achieving fitness and toning while losing weight.  Judging by how many boot camps can be found in each area, I’m pretty sure this is the consensus of many of my fellow fitness enthusiasts.  This form of training is also excellent for a beginner as it teaches you the various exercises you can do for the various muscle groups.  I often see beginners at the gym making a beeline for the cardio machines but never venturing into the weights section.  From my observations, I am to believe it is because of two reasons.  They are intimidated by the machines and are unsure of how to use them or there is this misconception, especially among women, that weight training will make you bigger or muscular.  This is simply not the case. In actual fact, weight training is imperative for fat loss.  As lean muscle mass increases, so does your metabolism allowing you to burn more calories.  Strength training also reduces the risk of osteoporosis by improving bone density.  This brings me to the taboo word, diet. To gain lean muscle mass, you have to consume a diet that is rich in protein.  A good meal plan should consist of protein, vegetables, carbohydrates and good fats. One should avoid refined foods, bread and sugar.  Alcohol is also high in calories especially those involving mixers. If you must drink, rather indulge in distilled drinks like whisky. Exercise should be fun. To keep you motivated, set yourself goals and challenges.  A challenge that I have always enjoyed is Jump City, which is an obstacle race.  There are many different races and events in Durban throughout the year, so research and find out which one is of interest to you and work towards it.  Of course, there is nothing like a healthy bit of competition to keep one motivated.  Poona is a Fitness and image consultant. POST 