Durban - It seems sophisticated syndicates are continuing to prey on wealthy businessmen, primarily of Indian origin, kidnapping them for ransoms running into tens of millions of rand, and social activist Yusuf Abramjee says enough is enough. In an open letter to Police Minister Fikile Mbalula and National Commissioner General Khehla Sitole, Abramjee listed several incidents, saying kidnapping syndicates have been operating for some time. In a year, approximately 15 kidnapping cases have been reported, many victims failing to make it out alive. On Monday the body of 32-year-old North West businessman Hasan Parvej was found after he was abducted from his store, 70km from Mahikeng last week. He was kidnapped for a R1 million ransom, but the family managed to raise only R70 000 and allegedly asked for more time. According to Abramjee, who has become the voice of the affected businessmen, the kidnappers wanted part payment. Hours after the cash drop-off, Parvej’s body was found in bush with multiple stab wounds. On December 27, he said, an Indian businessman, Shamshuddin Patel, from SI Hardware Group was kidnapped in Thohoyandou, Limpopo, after being stopped by men dressed in traffic police uniform. The gang demanded R6m cash and threatened to kill the businessman if the cash was not paid immediately. Limpopo police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Moatshe’ Ngoepe said police set up a sting operation and arrested one suspect after a high-speed chase. The businessman was later released. “The suspects demanded a ransom from the family members of the kidnapped victim to release him. "After they ordered the family to drop the ransom money at a particular point in Polokwane, the members monitored the drop-off point until about 1am when the transaction started.” The suspects arrived in a white Nissan Navara. Members of a tracking team apparently approached the vehicle which sped off. A high-speed chase ensued for 43km. “The suspects started shooting at the police who retaliated, when the driver of the suspects’ car, lost control. One suspect managed to flee into nearby bush, the second suspect was arrested.” Patel was released unharmed at the Capricorn Toll Plaza and the ransom money was recovered. Another kidnapped Limpopo businessman, Salim Vali Patel, 44, was found unharmed. He was hijacked and kidnapped on December 27. Last month, Pretoria businessman Omar Carrim, 76, was released after being held captive for 137 days. It is believed the family was forced to pay a large ransom. A few months earlier, Cape Town businessman Sadek Zhaun Ahmed was released after being kidnapped and held for several weeks. He also reportedly paid a large ransom. Businessman Naushad Deshmukh Khan, 46, of Cape Town, was kidnapped in late 2016 and held for weeks. He paid millions of rand in ransom and was freed. Abramjee said there have also been several kidnappings in KZN, many fleeing to Mozambique fearing for their lives after their release. He assisted the Moosa family of Nirvana, Polokwane, in 2016 after Anisah Moosa, 36, was kidnapped outside her uncle’s home. The gang demanded R3m. The victim was freed after a shoot-out with police. Three men were later arrested. They were released on bail. One of the men was shot dead in December in a robbery in Tzaneen. Abramjee said while he received death threats following his highlighting of the matter, he refuses to be intimidated. “Nothing will stop us, we will make sure they are brought to justice to face the full might of the law.” He said his reason for writing the open letter was not only to create awareness but to push police to take action. “Fear has gripped the community. If this scourge is not stopped, people will continue to not only be kidnapped, but will die. “The authorities need to put together an intelligence unit to specifically deal with this type of crime. They need to make arrests and beef up police activity,” Abramjee said, adding that he would be meeting with police officials to discuss a way forward. Hanif Loonat, Western Cape community crime activist and adviser to foreigners of Bangladesh, Indian and Pakistan origin, said the kidnappings were becoming extremely worrisome and he had pleaded with the authorities to take these rampant kidnappings seriously. “The fact that we are not getting co-operation from the government and SAPS is worrying. 'I can tell you through certain private investigation, we can prove who these individuals are. "We know who they are but the SAPS is not helping us, they are not taking our information seriously.” He said the modus operandi of the kidnappings was incredibly suspicious. He believed the Western Cape underworld could also be a part of the syndicate. “The type of money they are claiming for ransom, tells you that the people involved are high-ranking people.” He said it was not “Micky Mouse” people carrying out the kidnappings. “We hope these guys are not from government or the SAPS, because they will be exposed. Somewhere, somehow, someone will spill the beans.” He questioned why businessmen, primarily of Indian origin, were targeted. He said only a few Chinese and African businessmen were reportedly taken, with Indians, some South African born, some of Indian nationality, making up the majority of the kidnapped. “We are dealing with corrupt individuals who are targeting people who contribute substantially to the economy.” His message to the people responsible was: “You are going to be dealt with, just like in Maputo, we are going to catch up with you. You can’t hide.” POST