Durban - Westville songstress Risa Moodley is following in the footsteps of international heavyweights Mariah Carey and Jamie Foxx. She has joined the talent agency that helped put them on the path to stardom. The 16-year-old, who returned home from Las Vegas last week after auditioning at the iPOP (International Presentation of Performers), landed a role in the movie High School Musical versus Step Up. “No words can truly describe my emotions throughout my trip. I wanted to know if I was a good enough singer and where I would stand internationally. This audition was a great way for me to find out,” said Risa, who competed against participants from 47 countries. She auditioned in the singing category. Others were dancing, acting and modelling. The Westville Girls High School matric pupil impressed the crowd, judges and casting agents. She received a standing ovation for her rendition of Bruno Mars’s Versace on the Floor and Celine Dion’s My Heart Will Go On. She drew interest from nine casting agents but chose Global Image Talent Agency, which worked with singers Carey, Whitney Houston and Stevie Wonder as well as actor and comedian Foxx. She said of the opportunity: “I will get to do what I love best, sing, and I will get to try something new, acting. It is an amazing feeling and I am grateful to my parents and family, who helped turn my dream into a reality.” She said she was awaiting details of her role and the filming schedule. Risa attended auditions after competing in the South African leg of iPOP in 2016. After months of hard work, dedication and fund-raising, she was able to compete abroad. Her proud father, Kevin, a sales consultant, said Risa began singing at the age of 3. “She loved music and would learn the words of each song. She especially enjoyed singing in Hindi and Tamil.” Her mother, Seema, a financial assistant, and older sister, Bianca, 24, said they were proud of her achievements. Risa joined The Bollywood Showband in 2016 and has released seven cover albums. POST