Durban- Forced to move out of the community of Seaview due to the Group Areas Act, families were not only robbed of their homes but had to leave behind the remains of their loved ones which were buried at the Seaview Hindu Cemetery. According to MN Reddy, one of the oldest surviving residents from the area, the community received approval from the then-Corporation of the City of Durban in 1939 to establish the cemetery. “A board of trustees was nominated to run the cemetery and a temple was also erected. Although it was a Hindu cemetery, it served families from Hillary, Bellair, Seaview and Mount Vernon and people from various religious dominations including Christianity,” said the 83-year-old. Reddy, from Silverglen, said the area was very dense and families would access the cemetery through a tunnel. “Things were going well until the Group Areas Act was implemented. Many of us were moved to Chatsworth and we had to leave the graves. For years families went to the site to pay their respects to their loved ones but eventually families were unable to access the cemetery because of overgrown grass and crime.” Reddy said reopening the cemetery might help with the current grave shortage and should be considered by the eThekwini Municipality. Former resident Preggie Chetty said he had vivid memories of the area. “I was born in Seaview but when I turned 6 we moved out of the area because of the Group Areas Act. It was difficult for my family as my sister (Vishnu Devi Chetty) who died in 1965 after suffering a short illness was buried at the cemetery.” Chetty, 59, a retired teacher, said despite the restrictions of apartheid, families could still go visit the gravesites. “We relocated to Westcliff in Chatsworth but continued to visit my sister’s grave. The next year we even buried my grandmother there as well. "After a few years we stopped going to the site as it was becoming dangerous and we could access the graves because of the unkempt verges.” Chetty said the cemetery was neglected because no one was living there anymore. “I was young and I don’t recall any of the residents trying to take action to get the place cleaned up or fully operational. It was basically abandoned. It would be good if the cemetery was reopened as there is a shortage.” He said the city can have it reopened as a memorial site and families can also reclaim the old graves. “We think about my sister and grandmother all the time and we wish something was done to have their graves relocated.” POST