Durban - Champa and Prathab Singh of Pietermaritzburg did not fancy getting married. The thought of an arranged marriage, they said, was far from romantic and no one wanted to tie the knot with a stranger. But when they met for their proposal in 1961, they almost immediately agreed to the union. Now, 55 years later, they have no regrets. When Prathab, then 23, and Champa, then 17, used to question their parents about their prospective partners, they were simply told: “Just know that your partner comes from a good family.” Although Prathab knew Champa’s aunt, Raj Sewcharan, who raised her in Clare Estate, she did not know anything about his family. After their engagement, getting to know one another had become a challenge. “He was a manager at the Imperial Hotel in Pietermaritzburg and visited at weekends, but my family was strict and never left us alone. "We all sat together, talked and laughed,” said Champa. “I called her every day and would speak for as long as I could but I missed seeing her,” added Prathab. A year later, they married at Champa’s aunt's home in Edendale, Pietermaritzburg, among 300 guests. She wore a blue sari and Prathab a cream suit. Guests dined on vegetable breyani, dhall, salad and soji for dessert. Soon after the ceremony, Champa was whisked off to her new family's home in Thornvile. Two years later, their first child, Nishi, was born and Navin, Nivasha and Niel followed. Prathab said his wife was instrumental in raising their children due to his demanding working hours. “I started early and finished late and despite this she would wait up to have dinner with me.” Said Champa, now 72: “He would be so tired. "The least I could do was to keep him company.” Prathab retired as a manager at the hotel in 2005. Asked about the ingredients that made for a strong marriage, Prathab, 79, said they never fought. “We looked after one another and communicated. "We just clicked and understood each other's needs.” The couple celebrated their 55th wedding anniversary with their children. POST