Durban - Having a strong belief that one’s parents’ happiness is most important, a Chatsworth couple agreed to an arranged marriage and have celebrated 50 years of their own happiness. Krish Chetty, 72, and his wife, Indrani, 68, of Montford, celebrated their golden wedding anniversary in October. Their dads, who are distant relatives, decided their children should be married and they wed in 1967. The stay-at-home mother, who was 16 at the time of the proposal, said when her father told her about the prospective groom, she did not kick up a fuss. She believes a daughter should always agree to her parents wishes. “I was happy, as my father was happy and I did not disapprove when Krish’s family came to our home to meet me. "I looked forward to being married to him and spending our life together,” said Indrani, who lived in Chatsworth. Krish, who worked as a truck driver, said he was taken aback by his future bride’s beauty. After courting for two years, the couple tied the knot at the Chatsworth Hotel. About 300 guests attended and dined on a variety of vegetarian meals. Indrani wore a red and mustard silk sari, while Krish opted for a tan suit. After their wedding, they moved into Krish’s family home in Montford, where they have lived for the past 50 years. A few months into their marriage, Indrani fell pregnant with the couple’s daughter, Marlene, now 49, and three years later their son Mervin, who is now deceased, was born. Over the years, they have been blessed with five grandchildren. “We are immensely proud of our family. Raising our children has been a wonderful experience,” said Indrani. Speaking of their secret to a strong marriage, she said a couple must love and respect on another, and be understanding. “Love and faith combined can lead to a fruitful and loving marriage.” Krish, a retired supervisor at a logistics company, said: “There will always be ups and downs but as a couple you need to work through those issues.” They enjoy going to the cinema to watch the latest Bollywood movies, shopping, spending a day at the beach and time with their family. “As long as we are together, we are the happiest people on earth.” POST