Durban - As the matric class of 2017 hear their final results this week, for most it will be a day of ultimate joy.  The crown they have achieved after twelve years of long dedicated hours and hard work.  For a minority it will be a day of ultimate despair, faced with the harsh reality that this moment is crucial in determining their future and will haunt them for many years to come. If you as a parent are aware that your child might fall within the last-mentioned category or you are concerned about the mental health of your teenager in general, please take note of the following warning signs. Colleen Strauss, Chief Executive Officer of the Sinoville Crisis Centre, a registered non-profit organisation, says teenagers don’t simply start isolating themselves in their rooms for no apparent reason and if they do, parents should take the time to find out what is really troubling them. “We all know that children especially teenagers, react more emotional than adults to the challenges they are faced with. No teenagers are immune against the risk of suicide, but they must know where to turn for help and no matter what difficulty they are faced with, their parents and loved one care for them and will help them to cope.  “Teens become suicidal when they have trouble coping with stressful situations like rejection, failure, breakups and family turmoil.  "They also might suffer from a treatable mental health disorder like depression, have lost a love one of a close friend or are in conflict with someone they care about, have a history of exposure to physical or sexual abuse, are using alcohol or drugs, are the victim of bullying of are even uncertain about their own sexual orientation,” says Strauss. It is therefore important for parents and other siblings to take note of the following warming signs: •          Talking or writing about suicide, including making suicidal messages their profile pictures of doing research on the internet on how to commit suicide. •          Never ignore a threat. Statistics indicate that people who wants to commit suicide have at least seven unsuccessful attempts before they succeed. •          Withdrawing from social contact with family members and close friends, isolating themselves in their rooms with no apparent interest in the daily activities of other family members. •          Having mood swings, which will include sudden changes in mood patterns. •          Use of alcohol or drugs •          Telling others, they feel trapped or hopeless. •          Sudden changes in normal routines, like eating or sleeping patterns, even developing eating disorders. •          Giving away belongings without a logical explanation. If you are concerned, rather seek help. Phone the 24-hour Helpline of the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (SADAG) at 0800 12 13 14 or 0800 567 567.   For more information about the Sinoville Crisis Centre, phone Strauss on 078 109 5337.  POST