Durban - As a devastated mother prayed for the life of her youngest son, seriously wounded during a violent hijacking on Monday, little did she know her elder son also had a brush with death, after being stabbed in a mugging incident near the hospital where his sibling was being treated. 
For Priscilla Maharaj of Phoenix, the double tragedy was too much to bear. “It was stressful; while waiting for one child and not knowing how serious he is, to hear another son had been attacked and was in pain and losing blood,” she told POST.  “It shattered us as parents and we did not know who or where to turn to.” Priscilla explained that her younger son had been in theatre at Life Mount Edgecombe Hospital after he was shot outside their home. “He heard a commotion outside the house and went to investigate.” Unbeknownst to 24-year-old Sumith, a hijacking had just taken place and shots were being fired. “The bullet hit his stomach and was lodged between his colon and stomach, so doctors had to perform an emergency operation to get the bullet out,” she said. “While he was in theatre, my other son (Kerosh, 27) got hungry and went to grab something to eat from the service station shop next to the hospital. All of a sudden three guys tried to rob him and his friend and they tried to defend themselves. But my son fell to the ground and one of the men stabbed him on his legs and hands. His friend came running to inform us.” Kerosh, too, was admitted to the same hospital and found himself in theatre. Priscilla is relieved that her sons are recovering well. Kerosh has since been discharged. The distraught mother of three said crime was rife in Phoenix. “I warned Sumith that he is always ever ready to help people and be a hero but this time it proved that it’s not always good to be a hero.  "Look at where it got him, alone in hospital. The area was safe but there have been a few incidents recently and as a parent you don’t even know where your child will be safe,” she said. Gavin Naidoo, a neighbour who helped the Maharaj family take their youngest son to hospital, told POST that when he went outside he heard Sumith screaming, “I have been shot”. “My adrenalin kicked in and I immediately got into my car and rushed him and his family to hospital. He grew up in front of me and he was always on the road, a very happy guy. I stayed with the family until doctors said he was okay before I left them on Monday night,” he said. Naidoo said he now planned to create more awareness in the area to get the community together to fight crime. The victims of the hijacking said they had been left traumatised and living in fear since the incident, according to their relative, a neighbour of the Maharajs who requested anonymity. “My uncle had come to visit my granny, who is ill, with his family,” said the man.  “They parked their vehicle on the road and he (his uncle) went to see another neighbour. While they were walking to their vehicle to leave, my aunt noticed three men standing nearby and told him not to go to the car or unlock the vehicle, but rather to walk back to our home.  "As they approached our gate, the three men grabbed them and demanded the vehicle keys,” he said.  “He gave it to them but the ladies started screaming which led to all the neighbours rushing out to see what the commotion was about. We heard four gunshots and the vehicle sped off.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said a case of hijacking and attempted murder was being investigated. “The complainant alleged that he parked his vehicle outside his mother’s residence when he was accosted by three unknown suspects. “The suspects threatened him with firearms before robbing him of his vehicle. Whilst the suspects were fleeing the scene, they fired shots, wounding a bystander,” Zwane said. Residents of Avalen Crescent expressed their anger at the rising crime in their area. “I heard a lady scream and I went out to see what I could do and my wife told me not to go. Immediately after that we heard four gunshots,” said Loga Maduray.  “Crime is increasing here; this area was once a safe place for us where we could do anything freely but not anymore. Something needs to be done.” POST