Durban - The regional office of the Department of Social Development in Phoenix should be “condemned” due to its appalling state. So says MF councillor Jonathan Annipen. He said he checked out the building himself after receiving complaints from members of the public as well as employees. In a letter to the Department of Social Services and Public Works, Annipen described the building as shabby with unhealthy ablution facilities, leaking pipes, unstable railings and poor ventilation. “The building in itself is run down with caving ceilings and other hazardous identifications. A comprehensive investigation should be conducted and a complete overhaul and infrastructural upgrade be considered for this facility,” said Annipen in his letter. He told POST that a week since submitting the letters, he had not received any reply. “When I saw the dilapidation of the building I immediately contacted the MEC for Social Development, who said that she would send HoDs (heads of departments) out and arrange a redress meeting, which has not happened yet. "I sent the MECs of Social Services and Public Works letters which they did not respond to. They are responsible for these departments; they should account for what is happening,” he said. Annipen added that employees working in the building had also complained about poor working conditions. “According to the staff, it has been this way for years. They work in congested conditions with no proper infrastructure or equipment. "They are getting frustrated because they address their issues but no-one comes out and addresses it with them or assures them the building will be revamped. I went to the building, it is a health hazard,” he said. “These people who are supposed to be in charge need to be held accountable and if they cannot do their job, they should step down and let someone else do it instead.” Social Development MEC Weziwe Thusi told POST she has been in contact with Annipen and had already sent officials to assess the building. “We have been messaging one another and I told him I would be sending a team. My departmental team from my office went out to assess the building and together with Sassa (SA Social Security Agency) and the Department of Health we are working on the issue.” POST