Durban - A gardener has appeared in court in connection with the murder of Chatsworth grandmother Dhevi Pather. Thembalethu Dube, 28, was granted bail of R1 500 by the Chatsworth Magistrate’s Court on Monday. He was arrested by Chatsworth police and charged with house robbery and murder earlier this month, a few weeks after the body of Pather, 71, was discovered in one of the four bedrooms of her Arena Park home. Dube was allegedly employed by Pather and had been seen entering her property in the mornings and cleaning the yard, trimming trees and plants, among other chores. The gruesome discovery of Pather’s battered body - she was also strangled - was made by her daughter with whom she resides, when she returned from work that evening on December 18 at around 10pm. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane had confirmed that a family member had returned home to find the driveway gates had been derailed. The daughter alerted a local security company and upon entering the property, she made the discovery of the lifeless body on the floor. A close family member of Pather’s, who requested anonymity, told POST the family were in shock when they received the news of her death. “She was dedicated to her children, grandchildren and family; the love she showered on them and those around her is indescribable,” he said. “She would always open her arms to those in need. If anyone needed a plate of food or had come asking for help, she would always oblige.” Pather had worked as a manicurist and retired two years ago. “After retiring she wanted to continue travelling. She often told us she wanted to see the world, having already travelling across continents to the Far East, Europe, US and India,” the relative said. “She really loved life, could always be seen with a smile. What has happened to her was a cruel attack on the elderly.” Police continue to appeal to residents to screen persons who are seeking temporary employment before they are employed and to ensure a copy of the person’s identity document is obtained. “Criminals are opportunists who will attack the elderly as they are vulnerable and unable to defend themselves,” said Zwane. Dube is expected back in court next month. POST