Muthusamy “Dicky” Govender, 61, and his wife, Velliamma “Saroj”, 59, a Grade R teacher at Seatides Combined School, were travelling on the R102 from Shakaskraal on the KwaZulu-Natal North Coast towards oThongathi (Tongaat) on Saturday when they were gunned down in their SUV. POST has learnt that a probe into alleged corruption within the Dolphin Coast Taxi Association (DCTA), which Dicky had founded, is a possible motive behind the double murder. The couple were shot at with an AK47 assault rifle from a vehicle that had apparently pulled up alongside theirs, according to Suren Balram of security company Trans Natal Flying Squad. “Govender lost control of the vehicle and veered off the road but came to a stop on a sugar cane plantation. He died at the scene, while his wife was transported to the Victoria Hospital were she succumbed to her injuries.” The couple, who were cremated yesterday, were dealt a blow two years ago when their youngest son, Renesh, died following an illness. Their other son, Migeshan, could not be reached for comment. Dicky is the fourth person 
from the association to be killed since 2016. “Dicky was like a father to all of us. He was one of the first taxi operators in our community and the founder of the association,” said the body’s spokesperson, Sunshine Mthiyane. “He even helped me buy my first taxi. For him money was not an option and even when our vehicles needed repairs he would always assist us at his workshop - whether we had money or not.” Mthiyane described the taxi industry as “deadly”. It was believed, he said, that the attack was linked to people within the association, which has about 100 members who service Ballito, oThongathi, KwaDukuza and Durban. “We have never had any problems with the neighbouring taxi associations but within our own group we have rivalry and people trying to cause division in order to gain power.” Mthiyane said although Dicky was investigating issues of corruption within the association, he was never threatened. “He was an honest man and did not tolerate anything corrupt and for this reason we believe he was a target,” he said. “Prior to Dicky’s death three other members were also killed, leaving taxi owners fearful for their safety. "Now most owners have employed bodyguards to watch over them. This has become a deadly business.” Mthiyane said although they could not guarantee commuters’ safety, they intend on working with the KZN Department of Transport to find a solution. Taxi commuters approached by POST said they are concerned about their safety. “This incident has shocked our community. I travel to work by taxi every day. I am scared that we might be attacked,” said a mother of one who requested anonymity. “Who will protect us if something goes wrong? I am now considering using a lift club to work.” Another commuter said he hoped the government had a plan to curb these attacks. “Taxis are not only used by adults but children as well,” he said. “What happens if a child is attacked? The government and police need to see the seriousness of these shootings before it is too late.” Acting Transport, Community Safety and Liaison MEC Weziwe Thusi condemned the murders, saying it was being investigated by the Provincial Taxi Violence Task Team. “The murder of Mr Govender and his wife has all the traces of being premeditated, meaning the assailants were following them and knew where they would be,” said Thusi. “We further wish to appeal to all stakeholders in the industry to work towards finding amicable solutions to whatever points of conflict they may be confronted with.” Police spokesperson Lieutenant -Colonel Thulani Zwane said no arrests had been made. While the association mourns the loss of its leader, the pupils and staff at the school where Saroj worked are also devastated. Kola Govender, principal of Seatides Combined School, described Saroj as a well respected teacher who had a firm approach with pupils. “She was a loving person who did her very best to ensure the Grade R pupils adjusted to the new schooling environment,” she said. “Mrs Govender’s intention was to retire this year. We are all shocked by her death.” POST