Durban - A Phoenix businessman who risked his life to help a woman who was attacked outside his motor spares shop said he would do it again if it meant saving a life. Imran Hussain, a 32-year-old father of two, had his shin ruptured when he was shot in the leg after he ran to the assistance of a woman who was being pistol whipped for her handbag by four men on the corner of Highstone Place and Fernham Drive on Friday morning. He did not think twice about helping her when he heard her screams outside his Whetstone business. “Her head was bleeding. All I wanted was to get the men away from her. She was alone and the first thought that came to my mind was “this could have easily been my wife or mother’.” As soon as the suspects saw him, they opened fire and hit him in the leg. “I realised that I was hurt and I fell on my stomach. I grabbed my firearm and retaliated.” Hussain said the suspects fled and the injured woman ran into a nearby shop. According to Phoenix security company KZN VIP, one of the suspects was also shot in the gun battle. “The other robbers then bundled the injured suspect into a waiting car and took him to a clinic. A brave resident followed the suspects, handed over the information to the police who later arrested them,” said KZN VIP director Glen Naidoo. He praised Hussain for his heroic efforts and thanked him for risking his life to save another’s. Hussain’s shin was shattered during the shooting and four steel pins had to be inserted into his leg. He has now been discharged from hospital but is said to be in a lot of pain. Hussain said many people stood by and just watched as the woman was attacked. “By us being divided we have lost too many lives we need to unite, to stand together against crime.” The injured woman is said to have visited Hussain’s shop with her husband to thank him for helping her. Many others took to Facebook to hail Hussain’s heroic efforts. Rabia Snyman posted: “You are a true Samaritan, thank you for thinking of someone else. May you be blessed, I wish there were more people out there like you then we would have less crime. A speedy recovery once again. God bless you.” Pat Lowton added: “Thank God for such brave people. He didn’t think twice about helping a person in danger. Not many of his calibre is around. Wish you a speedy recovery.” Raindree Appalsami said: “Not many people will do that. He is a true hero. God bless him. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed the incident. POST