Opposition parties have accused the council of “financial dumping” and squandering public money on something that will become a “white elephant”. The plan to build the multimillion rand sports complex was approved a few weeks ago, with the mayor, Vincent Madlala, recently carrying out the sod turning ceremony in the Acaciavale area where a sports field will be built. According to a media release issued by the council, the “sports field is set to accommodate a soccer field, change rooms, a cricket ground, two combo courts an outdoor gym, security and access controlled building and parking. Madlala said: “We plead with you as the community of ward 20 (the site) to take care of the project. Keep a close eye on the site so that nothing gets stolen or damaged in order for the project to be a great success”. “This project will also benefit the community through job opportunities during and after the construction phase,” he said. On Wednesday, Madlala directed further communication about the project to the municipality’s communication office. The communications team said it would respond fully yesterday, but had not responded by the time of publishing. Ward 20 IFP councillor Abbas Warasally described the spending as financial dumping. “There is a stadium in this ward that is already underutilised. This will be just another white elephant. As the IFP we do not support this spending and believe it a waste of money. “This thing was rammed through the council despite opposition to it because the ruling party is the majority in the council,” he said. DA councillor Khulekani Msibi said it opposed such a construction as it amounted to a waste of resources. “There are already two sports complexes that are less than 15 kilometres apart, there is no need for a third one. “There is a sport complex at Ezakheni area that is yet to be completed, and there is another complex in the suburbs. If there is money to spend, it should be spent on completing the centre in Ezakheni. “The one in Ladysmith is already a white elephant, and the one they are planning to build will also suffer the same fate.”