Durban - Two policemen, who tried to extort money from a truck driver, have been arrested and charged for corruption. The officers aged 31 and 42, were arrested while on duty yesterday. KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, said the two pulled over a truck at Essex Terrace in Westville. Naicker said the truck was searched and the policemen found that the disc was expired and that the passengers were foreign nationals. “The Sergeant and Constable allegedly demanded cash from the driver instead of dealing with the transgressions. The truck driver contacted his employer asking him to deposit the cash by e-wallet. The police officers then drove to a local mall with the truck driver to withdraw the money,” he said. The employer then alerted members at the Westville police station about the ordeal. Naicker said police officers from Westville SAPS immediately responded to the report and apprehended the suspects at the mall as they attempted to withdraw the cash. “They were arrested and charged for bribery and corruption.  Their firearms were immediately removed from their possession for safekeeping and they were detained in the cells at the Westville police station,” he said. The arrests have been welcomed by Acting Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi. He conveyed his thanks and appreciation to the truck owner who did not hand over monies to the policemen. “We need more honest citizens such as him that are willing to work with authorities to get rid of corrupt government employees. We as the police detest corruption and we will not hesitate even for a second to arrest our own that are accused of corruption. Those who do not act against corruption when it is brought to their attention will also face the full might of the law. We certainly do not need such individuals within the ranks of the SAPS. I also commend those upright police officers that responded to the report of corruption and acted decisively in this case,” he said. Meanwhile, two members of the recently established, much vaunted Anti-Gang Unit have been arrested by their fellow members. The arrests follow an investigation into a complaint of theft, which is believed to have occurred during a raid in Mitchells Plain. Daily News