 WE might all draw power off the national grid, but it seems Durbanites and Joburgers are among the worst hit in the country when it comes to load-shedding. That dreaded lights-out scenario, which always comes at the worst time, are hardly according to schedule. And they can last as long as the power utility deems fit. But power outages can be caused by other issues too, such as accidents or infrastructure faults. And while nobody is ever fully prepared, despite generators, invertors, gas appliances and solar panels, there are ways to mitigate the damage a power outage - or subsequent surge - will have on your wallet and your security. Hippo.co.za executive head, Vera Nagtegaal, says: “Power surges following a storm or those due to load-shedding can result not only in damage to equipment and appliances, but also subsequent damage to other goods. An example of this is the deterioration of goods such as meat and dairy products kept in your fridge or freezer. If you have comprehensive home contents cover, you may be able to claim for the spoilage of goods.” Not all insurers cover fridge contents, so ask at policy initiation whether or not this is included in the policy because it will make a difference when you have to throw out a fridge-full’s worth of shopping because you went away for a few days and came back to a stinking mess. Some insurers may also limit the amount of cover their customers are able to claim for under power surge damage. Others may ask that you provide proof of costs such as a grocery slip or picture of the fridge contents to back up your claim for the fridge contents. “It’s important to note that this type of cover is dependent on the insurance provider’s benefits and subject to the conditions of the insurance policy. For example, some insurers may also cover you for spoilage in the event where your fridge had broken down by mechanical failure, whereas others may only cover you in the event of claimable incidents such as lightning or power surges,” she says. Power cuts are not only inconvenient: they can cause irreparable damage to your appliances and cause electrical fires, so if you’re scheduled for an outage - or you know when power will be restored - rather switch off all your household plug points and pull out the plugs to prevent power surge damage. Surge arrester plugs are advisable - but don’t skimp on quality because these are safety critical. Power surges can “fry” your equipment and cause electrical fires. Nagtegaal says insurance cover for fire damage will depend on which type of cover you have, such as building, household or business insurance. “You cannot, for example, claim for fire damage to your furniture if you only have buildings insurance.” When the lights go out, criminal opportunists are also likely to strike, so check that your alarm system is working properly and that you are able to gain access - or leave - your property without power. This especially applies to and gate motor batteries. If your alarm system fails during a power outage, and your policy states that you need a working alarm system in place, the insurer might well reject the claim on that technicality. When you submit a claim after a burglary, the insurer will check that your system was functioning properly at the time of the incident - if it wasn’t, the insurer could argue that the malfunction was negligent and on the basis of that, reject your claim. It’s also a good idea to check your alarm system once a year - to ensure that the batteries are in order, that the radio control centre receives a signal and that the panic buttons work. Some private security companies also offer back-up batteries and will arrange additional patrols, if required. Nagtegaal says a further issue to consider is the likelihood of being caught in a traffic jam and for accidents at dark intersections, so it’s always advisable to check that your motor insurance is up to date. “Car insurance will protect you from financial loss and allow you to fulfil your obligations to the other party, should you be responsible for causing the accident.” Blackouts are a part of our reality for the immediate future - and you don’t want to be caught out in the dark, counting down the hours. POST