Durban - Quick-thinking Metro Police officers attached to the K9 Unit had to commandeer a golf cart to search for a would-be-hijacker who had fled to Durban Country Club to escape the scene of a botched hijacking. The incident took place this afternoon after Metro Police officers responded to a call of an attempted hijacking by three males. It is alleged that an elderly male, believed to be in his 50s was approached by the suspects near south beach. They asked him for a lift to Blue Lagoon. Once there he stopped but they refused to disembark the Honda Ballade. Finally he stopped at the Durban Country Club and asked them to leave his car. The suspects allegedly pulled a gun on the driver trying to force him to drive further. The police who attended the scene said the driver allegedly managed to get out of his vehicle, pull out his gun and fire some shots towards the direction of the would-be-hijackers who were now fleeing the scene. Captain Sosibo of Metro Police gave chase on foot while also calling for help from the K9 Unit. Two of the suspects disappeared into the crowds near the paddling pools while the one suspect went through the fence into the Durban Country Club. Acting Captain Thavenderan Govender and Constable Deon Chetty together with their dog Yakira, started the search for the suspect. Realising that the area to cover is too vast, Govender commandeered a golf cart. Eventually they spotted the suspect who was tackled by Yakira. The suspect was taken to hospital. Metro Police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad commended the police officers for their quick response saying it was proof that Durban Metro Police officers were working tirelessly to curb crime especially during the festive season. He however urged members of the public to continue to be vigilant at all times. “Despite all the police visibility these criminal elements are still on the ground we are trying our best with all the police that we have to bring the crime down. I want to commend these officers, not only from the dog unit because there were other members who responded to the call. It shows that we have dedicated and passionate members,” Sewpersad said. The Mercury