It has been alleged that the UK businessmen, age 34 and 35, have been given an international ban on cricket matches. The two were arrested at the Mzansi Super League match at Kingsmead Stadium on Friday. Both were taken to Durban Central police station where they were each released on R500 station bail. They have until January 18 to appear in court to challenge the charges. In a statement issued by their lawyer, Roy Singh, they denied any involvement in match-fixing. The statement read: “In response to media reports, my clients deny that they have ever been involved in any form of match-fixing, corruption or manipulation of matches, whether in cricket or any other sport. They have never been sanctioned or prosecuted for match-fixing, spot fixing, or any other form of corruption or attempt to unduly influence the outcome of a match.” The men denied they had an international ban on attending cricket matches. “There isn’t any genuine evidence that they have ever been involved in any form of match-fixing or corruption exists,” read the statement. They said they would pursue all legal means available against any individual or organisation who chose to make any false accusation against them or in any way slander or defame them. Singh said the men, who were on business in the country, had bought tickets to attend the match between Durban Heat and Jozi Stars. “While seated in the suite they were approached by security officials on allegations of match-fixing. Police were then brought in,” said Singh. Spokesperson for Cricket South Africa Koketso Gaofetoge said they had previously advised that any suspicious activity at the stadium during the Mzansi Super League would be clamped down on as part of enhanced anti-corruption protocols. “The protocols include the sighting of any persons deemed to be engaging in betting activities or the facilitation of betting activities within the stadiums. Such persons will be removed and could face possible arrest.” Gaofetoge declined to comment on the arrest. CSA chief executive Thabang Moroe said with the use of enhanced technology, match fixers are using people posing as fans in the stadium to relay live data to illegal betting houses functioning abroad. “These companies and their activities create an additional threat to the integrity of the game. To prevent such activities, we have strengthened our in-stadia monitoring and protection capabilities, including the active surveillance of crowd activities. “Cricket loving fans will recognise the risk that corrupt activities present to the game. We call on all fans to assist us in reporting any ‘live’ betting related activities from any viewing areas within the stadium, so that these can be monitored and addressed,” he said. The Mzansi Super League finals take place on Sunday. POST