The family of Miguel Louw, 10, whose body was found in bushes in Phoenix, say Christmas will bring sad memories. Miguel had been missing for about two months when his decomposed body was found in September. Family spokesperson Tashnim Omardeen said Miguel’s mother Raylene Louw was still trying to come to terms with the death of her boy. “There will be no shopping of Christmas gifts, or the joy of seeing him opening his presents. It’s school holidays; he would be playing with his sister and cousins,” she said. The man arrested for Miguel’s alleged murder and kidnapping, Mohammed Ebrahim, was denied bail on Friday in the Durban Regional Court. The family are now waiting for the case to be indicted to the high court as the State has finalised its investigations. Also expecting a bleak Christmas without their children are the families of Luyanda Msomi and Njabulo Mankayi. The schoolboys and friends were allegedly killed in an act of vengeance by a woman scorned, late last year. Amahle Maliwa, a woman alleged to have been involved in a relationship with Njabulo’s father, and her friend, Liziwe Ngwayishe, were arrested. They will be tried in the Durban High Court in May. Luyanda’s father Terrence Msomi said the family had not celebrated Christmas last year because the pain was still very fresh. He said they had hoped that this year would be better, but it was worsened by the fact that the case was still dragging on. “I think about what he would have wanted for Christmas. He always had a list of the things. We miss his laughter, his happiness, and his excitement for Christmas was priceless,” said Msomi. The delays were also unbearable for the family of Njabulo who had anticipated that the case would have been concluded by the end of this year. Njabulo’s father Thandaza Mankayi said it was painful for them to travel to the family homestead in the Eastern Cape without him. He said the trip used to be a jolly one which Njabulo looked forward to each year. Mankayi said the opening of Christmas presents were his son’s highlight of the festive season. “We were hoping that the court would have concluded the case by this Christmas. We are not going to have a merry Christmas in my household, not until we get justice for my boy,” he said. Daily News