Although the couple were medically healthy to have children of their own, they chose adoption as their first choice - and race of the child was never an issue. They named their daughter Zendaya Lyon. Zendaya is an African name derived from the Shona language, which means “To give thanks”, and Lyon is French for lion. The couple believe their daughter is courageous as a lion. “The desire to adopt was always in my heart,” said Vencatasamy, 42, of Phoenix. Her mother died when she was 16. “Adoption gave us joy and love. We cannot do justice to explain the love we have for our baby. She is truly born of my heart, and I can never live without my heart. “The truth is, she has done more for us and our families in the past few years than I can describe. We are the ones who are blessed and she is the love that found us. “Our baby, who is almost three, is proudly African and we intend to bring her up acknowledging our family diversity but embracing her own identity.” The doting mother said they were “forever grateful to Jesus for the priceless gift he gave to us”. Her husband Theo, 34, both business partners, married in 2009 and starting a family had become a priority. “I was socially aware that there were more than twomillion orphaned and abandoned children in the country, and as a newly married couple, as much as we desired to adopt, we had no idea how to start this process. “We also heard how expensive it would be and the challenges associated with it.” In 2012, they joined the non-profit organisation Peace Agency South Africa’s mentorship programme, called Bright Stars, which focused on mentoring orphaned and vulnerable children. “We spent an hour every Saturday mentoring and helping vulnerable children at various homes and we realised how much they needed families.” Four years later, they met a private social worker and went through the legal process of adoption. “She asked if we were willing to adopt a baby from a different race group and we had no problem with this. My husband and I believe that if you truly know what love is, you can never have any prejudice.” They were then placed on an adopting waiting list. “This was a challenging time. It took a month until we were given a faded picture of a baby girl. “We trusted in God that this was his will for our lives and that this was going to happen divinely and it did.” The couple met their 8-month-old daughter on October 5, 2016, and took her home on the same day. Moodliar advises those looking to adopt a child to look beyond race. “If you have the capacity to truly love there should never be any barriers.” POST