The audio of the movie was released a long time ago and received massive support. We may have another Pongal release (January 14) in Ennai Noki Paayum Thotta. Ajith Kumar, the multitalented actor, gave us blockbusters like Vivegam, Vedalam and Veeram. His next movie, Visvasam, is slated for a Pongal release. Ajith is married to actress Shalini who won critical acclaim for her role in the Madhavan starrer, Alai Paayuthe. The couple have two children. In addition to being a leading actor in Kollywood, Ajith finds great delight in pursuing his passions that include Formula One racing and piloting fighter jets. Ajith has completed racing circuits in Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi and overseas. The actor is currently in Germany following his passion for aero-modelling. He was an active participant in a conference aimed at enabling the German government to prepare a requisition to the Indian government for the recognition of aero-modelling in India. Recently, the Madras Institute of Technology had appointed Ajith as its “helicopter test pilot and UAV system adviser”, and he helped the aero-modelling and operated remote-controlled vehicles such as drones. As we observe 16 Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and Children campaign in South Africa, the “Me Too” campaign is gaining momentum in Kollywood with many perpetrators being named. Singer and dubbing artist Chinmayi was the catalyst in the campaign. Sadly, Chinmayi has paid heavily for speaking out. She is being victimised and her membership to the Dubbing Artist Association has been cancelled, and her prospects of playback singing is looking bleak. Vijay is next to be directed by Atlee, and will see Nayanthara share screen space with him. The couple had worked earlier in the 2009 released movie Villu. Nayanthara starred opposite Arya in Altee’s maiden directorial Raja Rani. Yogi Babu and Vivek have been roped in for comic relief. Academy award-winning musician AR Rahman will be composing music for the movie. Shooting will commence in January. In a short time, actor Vijay Sethubathy has won the hearts of many and is referred to as Makkal Selvam (the wealth of the nation). He is well known for his raw, rugged charm and does justice to movies that require this type of character. His recent release, 96, has won critical acclaim and has upped the actor’s commercial viability by a few notches. A wax statue of him is to be erected at one of the most iconic places in Chennai, the Express Avenue Mall. This was announced by the team of Seethakathi, Vijay’s next release. The statue will portray the character of Ayya, played by Vijay, and marks his 25th movie. The most potent playback singing duo in Kollywood at the moment is Sid Sriram and Shreya Goshal. Born in Chennai and moved to San Franciso, Sid is a noted rhythm and blues singer. He is now a sought-after playback singer in Kollywood. South Africans will recognise him for the song, Inkem Inkem, from the Telugu movie, Geetha Govindam. Now Sid and Shreya are joining forces under the music direction of Yvan Shankar Raja for actor Suriya’s forthcoming movie Nanda Gopalan Kumaran (NGK). A spectacular visual treat awaits in director’s Shankar’s magnum opus 2.0. Slated to be the most expensive movie to come out of India to date, it surpasses all expectations and is best watched in 3D. Unfortunately, theatre owners have chosen to screen the Tamil version in 2D only. The Hindi version is screened in 3D at selected venues. Superstar Rajinikanth is a major drawcard and his magnetic screen presence overwhelms. Akshay Kumar, as the antagonist, is impressive and makes a sparkling debut to Kollywood through 2.0. The movie defies logic at places, but its technical brilliance allows one to pardon these flaws. A relevant script, taut screenplay, mind-blowing VFX and excellent background score by double Oscar winner Rahman makes for repeated viewing of 2.0. * Lutchmanan is an educator, author and linguistic campaigner. She is also a presenter/producer at Lotus FM. You can hear her on Inisai Mazhai, Fridays from 6pm to 7pm, and The Best Of Kodambakkam, Sundays 10am to 1pm. POST