Metro police spokesperson Senior Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad said overloading posed a risk to all road users and spot checks on Friday had re-emphasised that the issue was serious. “Some taxis are transporting about 30 passengers in a 14-seater vehicle. They sit on top of each other with three of them squashed in the front seat next to the driver. They are unable to wear seatbelts and the driver’s movements are also restricted,” said Sewpersad. He said some sat on makeshift seats, using boards and crates, while others were dangerously squashed against the windows and the door. During Friday’s clampdown, the Metro Police K9 unit took its operations to Mobeni and Chatsworth’s Higginson Highway, where 22 fines were issued. Chatsworth taxi drivers, bound for the Durban CBD, were pulled over in Mobeni and many of the passengers were found crammed into the vehicles. The other taxis pulled over had between five and 15 extra passengers, and the drivers were issued with fines ranging from R500 to R3500. A micro-bus travelling on the Higginson Highway had passengers sitting on the floor, while others were standing next to the door. It was certified to carry 22 passengers and was overloaded by eight. The driver was taken into police custody after it was found that a warrant of arrest had been issued for a R3500 unpaid fine. During the stop and search, many passengers were upset that the taxis were pulled over. They indicated that they had no option but to pile into the vehicles, which was seen as a faster mode of public transport. The passengers said the taxis were already full by 6am and they were left with no choice but to jump in, or they would be late for work and possibly faced losing their jobs. Sewpersad said: “By overloading, the driver is compromising the taxi’s brake system, which can be detrimental.” He said some taxi drivers, its conductors and passengers were arrogant when stopped. “They need to realise we are trying to ensure their safety, and save lives as well as ensure the road laws are not violated.” Operations would intensify during the festive season. On the issue of inappropriate behaviour, he encouraged passengers to take down the taxi’s registration number, time, date and driver’s details and open a charge with SAPS. A former taxi owner, Ashlin Maharaj, said he quit the industry as he could not account for what his drivers got up to. “Drivers need to make about R600 a day, so they try to make that money early by overloading, and the money made over the rest of the day is for their own pockets.” Bashir Ismail, spokesperson for the Chatsworth Minibus Association, said: “The drivers caught overloading will undergo a disciplinary hearing, held every Wednesday, and face being suspended or banned.” He said rank marshalls ensured taxis were loaded according to the certificate of fitness. “However, we are aware that drivers take on more passengers along the route to collect more money, which they pocket.” He said passengers were prepared to jump into an overloaded taxi so they could pay only a portion of the full fare. “Don’t jump into the taxis if they are overloaded, even if a conductor offers a lower fare.” POST