Durban - ZAHIRA Khan was killed after she was shot more than 10 times and her husband Zain is fighting for his life in hospital, after alleged hitmen opened fire on them as they opened their wholesale business in Warwick Avenue, on Sunday afternoon. Speaking on behalf of the family, Ahmed Paruk of the Muslim Burial Society said they were struggling to come to terms with the shooting. “The family are finding it difficult to cope. Multiple bullets were taken out from the deceased and her husband. He is still critical in hospital and underwent a major operation yesterday (Tuesday). They do suspect it could have been a hit as nothing was taken but they are leaving it in the hands of police to investigate.” A source, who declined to be named, also implied the shooting could have been a hit. He said the couple mainly sold cigarettes and that business had been booming for years. “Sometimes by midday, their stock, which was worth hundreds of thousands, would be sold out.” He said the couple trusted many people and that to gain access on to their premises was not easy. “It’s very secure. There’s a gate leading up to the store where security stand. There’s also a gate before you enter the shop and security guards and cameras all around.” He said many of their customers had paid for stock on account and believed that if nothing was stolen from the premises, it could have been a hit on their lives. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele could not confirm if the shooting was a hit as the case was still under investigation. She, however, said the couple were in their car outside the business when bullets were fired at them. Zahira, 35, died instantly and Zain, 38, was hospitalised and in a serious condition. She was buried on Sunday evening at the Hazrath Soofie Saheb RA in Riverside. Mbele said they had been robbed of their belongings and a case of murder, attempted murder and robbery had been opened at Durban Central Police Station. Paruk, who described the couple as loving, trusting and sweet, said they had been in the midst of planning a family holiday for them and their two children a boy, 14, and a girl, 12. Their store has since been closed. On Monday when POST went to the store, neighbouring businesses and street vendors said they did not know the couple; only that they had worked in the building for years. Relatives who stood on the roadside declined to comment. POST