Durban - KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Health, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, has encouraged the thousands who applied for 300 posts within the department, not to give up hope. Yesterday at least 9000 men and women gathered at the Cato Manor sports grounds in the hopes of securing one of the 300 posts - 150 for enrolled nurses and 150 for enrolled nurse assistants. “This is part of a stimulus package which was first announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa earlier this year and, more recently by health minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, to boost the health sector through the creation of more than 5 300 jobs throughout the country,” he said. The MEC also strongly criticised the province’s 28 private nursing colleges who train students at exorbitant cost, without considering whether there are enough posts in the public and private healthcare sectors in which to place them. While some arrived as early as 5am for the 9am start, there were reports that others had spend the night at the grounds, in the hope of being first in the queue. Commenting on the day’s proceedings, MEC Dhlomo thanked all those who made the day a success, but expressed his sadness at the large number of job-seekers. “It is sad when you look at the numbers of unemployed people who’ve been trained, largely by the private nursing colleges in the province, going over 10 000. When we engaged these private nursing colleges, I asked them ‘what plan do you have? Why do you keep on training people when there’s no plan to get them into the system?’ All these people have remained unknown to the department,” he said. Dhlomo added that the department wants to further  decrease our intake in hospitals to allow for the absorption of these nurses. “That has not had a significant dent. We even made arrangements to transport them to various other provinces if they need to be seen there, and be interviewed for jobs. Here and there they’ve been successful, but by and large we still remain with over 10 000 nurses who are unemployed. Dhlomo said the recruitment was done centrally because the department wanted the nurses to begin working from January 1. He said it was sad that they received 10 000 applicants for the posts but he encouraged those who did not get placed not to worry. “We know there’ll be a significant number of people who won’t be successful through this process. As the first province that has done this recruitment in this fashion, we hope that our tutors, principals and examiners will then be able to take some of those scripts and share that database with their colleagues in other provinces to  consider these nurses for positions,” he said. Daily News