Merisse, 32, a beauty therapist of Glenwood, is four months pregnant and is expected to give birth to their son in April. Marcus, 36, a banker, said he had planned to take 10 days annual leave, which meant he would have been left with minimal time to de-stress during the remainder of the year. “Having 10 days paternity leave will really help to take care of Merisse and our son,” said Marcus. He added that the times had changed and fathers were becoming more hands-on in raising their children. “These days, with both parents having to work, many of the responsibilities are shared and the 10 days will ease the pressure on mothers.” Merisse said she was relieved Marcus would be by her side, especially while she healed after the birth. “There are not many women who have family support after having a child and this will make a big difference.” Vinolin Naidoo, who is awaiting the birth of his second child, is grateful for the leave.  Naidoo, 36, a supervisor at Toyota, and his wife, Stephanie, 35, a baby gym instructor, are expecting their daughter next month. “I am a hands-on dad. My wife and I co-parent and this makes our family stronger and happier.” Last week, President Cyril Ramaphosa signed the bill into law. In 2014, Cape Town financial manager Hendri Terblanche submitted a petition to the National Council of Provinces calling for biological and adoptive fathers to get 10 days paternity leave. He also approached parliamentarians and encouraged them to draft a bill for consideration by the National Assembly. Terblanche, 41, believed the three days family responsibility leave did not sufficiently allow for fathers to bond with their newborns and assist their partners. When his twins, Dante and Juandre, were born three months prematurely, Dante spent 139 days in hospital and Juandre 79 days. While visiting his sons in ICU, he saw fathers were present only for the first three days of their babies lives because they had to return to work. He believed the three days was insufficient and started the petition. The African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) then tabled a private member’s bill. Due to these efforts, fathers will be entitled to 10 consecutive days parental leave, which also applies when an adoption order is granted. The adopted child must, however, be under 2 years. One parent will be given adoption leave of two months and the other, 10 day parental leave. Terblanche said the amendment was progressive legislation that would strengthen families - as it provided for parental, adoption and commissioning parental leave. He said the bill was gender neutral and would contribute to a more equitable and harmonious society. “It now recognises the role of both parents in their care-giving duties towards their child(ren).” ACDP MP Cheryllyn Dudley said the most successful companies globally are those that have policies supporting families. “Companies benefit because they are able to retain staff and become sought after by job seekers.” Dudley said everyone needed to be on board for the bill to work. “This will also see the dynamics of the family change. In the past, mothers, soon after giving birth, were left to care for their babies, but now fathers will be able to get more involved, enabling them to create a better bond and relationship with their children.” She added that the bill also provided for the payment for parental leave to be claimed through the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Javu Baloyi of the Commission for Gender Equality, said: “We wish it was more days but we believe this is going to be a progressive law.” POST