In a press statement, the organisation said the eThekwini Munici­pality had used an old project to install hundreds of cell masts across the city, flouting its own regulations and laws. Alliance spokesperson Niki Moore said that when she received paperwork about the MTN rollout as part of an ongoing legal battle between the parties, she was expecting boxes of papers. “Instead, I was given a thin sheaf of papers, consisting of a couple of letters and some invalid lease documents. It took us all of a few minutes to realise that this whole project had been cooked up from the beginning,” she said. The alliance had learnt that MTN had allegedly suggested to the city that they run a trial attaching their antennae to galvanised CCTV camera poles at the beachfront 10 years ago. The reasoning behind this, the organisation said, was because MTN said it would take 18 months to set up its own infrastructure due to various regulatory requirements. The trial run was a success, and in 2011 MTN asked to add more antennae to existing CCTV poles. The alliance said the scheme escalated, with MTN building poles and gifting them to the city, which required no planning or regulatory approval as the city would facilitate the process. “By conflating these three unrelated processes, MTN and the city thought they could take a few pieces of each and allow any laws to fall through the cracks. “This is how MTN managed to roll out their entire infrastructure in Durban without a single piece of paper,” Moore said. She said not one mast was compliant with the city’s regulations. MTN corporate affairs executive Jacqui O’Sullivan said the company was working hard to get retroactive approval of cell mast sites in the city. “This process follows MTN originally entering into a public-private partnership with the municipality through the disaster management and emergency control unit ahead of the 2010 Fifa World Cup to showcase Durban and South Africa as a world-class destination,” she said. Years later, the partnership was found to be not aligned with a regulation of the land use management unit in terms of the municipal approval processes, O’Sullivan said. On discovery of this, MTN sought to ensure that it was compliant. “As MTN has noted in the past, the company is being entirely guided by the municipal process and is in full compliance with what has been asked of the company. All other mobile operators making use of the camera poles to erect masts must be held to the same standards and must follow due process,” she said. The municipality had not responded to questions on the matter by the time of publication. Daily News