She was shocked to learn that there was no money in the account. The 50-year-old domestic worker from Assagay supports her brother’s two children and gets the grant for them. Gumede said she went to the Clermont Sassa branch to query the empty account. “They told me to make a new card but there was still no money. There was only R3 left in the account,” Gumede said. Judy Brightman, one of Gumede’s employers, assisted her by going to the Westville post office to help resolve the matter. “They said the money was deposited into her Postbank account on November 27 and withdrawn the next day,” Brightman said. Brightman added that Gumede did not have a Postbank account. She said the post office - which was out of hard copy affidavits - emailed her a copy for Gumede to sign in order to start an investigation into the incident. “I was informed by Sassa that a Postbank account was opened in my name and that my monthly Sassa grant was being paid into this account. I have no knowledge of such an account and did not open it myself” Gumede’s affidavit states. Sassa spokesperson Vusi Mahaye, while not aware of this particular case, said similar incidents had been reported since the start of the December 2018 payment cycle. Mahaye advised complainants to go to the Sassa office where the application for a new card was done in order to recapture the correct account number on the Sassa system. This, he said, would enable future payments to go to the correct account. He said the complainant would need to provide supporting documentation in the form of an affidavit and a certified copy of their identity do- cument for the investigation to take place. “This documentation will be sent to the post office to initiate its investigation and to ascertain if any of its staff bypassed internal controls. The beneficiary must also open a charge of fraud with the SAPS.” Mahaye said the outcome of the post office investigation would determine whether Gumede’s money would be refunded or not. He said should beneficiaries be in situations of undue hardship because of such incidents, they could go to the nearest Sassa local office for assistance with social relief. “We advise beneficiaries to keep their cards in a safe place and ensure that they do not share their PIN codes with anyone. “For further details, we advise beneficiaries to contact us on our customer care numbers, 033 846 3400 or 0800 60 10 1,” said Mahaye. Gumede said investigations into her matter were continuing. “In the meantime, I can’t buy the children anything because of the wait and the department told me that I must wait until the end of the month to get the grant,” she said. The post office did not respond to questions.