Durban - The year 2018 will be remembered for local artists pulling out all the stops to convince us that local music has stepped up a notch to the international stage. It’s really tough yet exciting when you think about the song that’s going to be blaring from sound systems this December. So, with the help of my colleague and friend from East Coast Radio, Bongani Mtolo, I came up with, potentially, the biggest hits for this summer. Let’s count down our Top 5 picks: 5. Vusi Nova wowed the country in 2017 and that earned him a South African Music Award in the category Best Afro Pop Album. He has unsurprisingly done it again with a song entitled Asphelelanga. It can be translated to some not being here and it’s a dedication to the cream of the crop who established themselves in the industry but who may not necessarily be here today. 4. A new-comer is always a revelation, especially when you anticipate that he/she just shows up for a one-hit wonder approach to music. It might just be a great marketing strategy for a guy called Manqonqo with a song called Eyadini. If you like shisanyama like I do, be sure to turn up the volume for this one. The title speaks for itself, which is a world-famous hangout for the traditional South African braai with lots of spice and taste. 3. When you talk one of the most successful house DJs on the continent, his name pops up faster than the famous beverage everyone associates him with. Black Coffee has created a domain for himself that many consider to be among the world’s top 10. The guy is living the dream with so many collaborations set for the new year, but his team-up with French maestro David Guetta this year will go down in history as a commercial chart topper. I see this song being as popular as when it got released. While it’s a cold beverage you crave these holidays, it’s Black Coffee you crave between your ears! 2. AKA ft Kiddominant has to be on this list of music for the summer. The Fela in Versace movement is breaking all boundaries. A well-executed music video to go along with the banging hit and you have a recipe for stardom. Is AKA going to slow down next year? I believe he has only scratched the surface as to what he can offer in the future. 1. Pop a bottle of champagne for this one! He has been around the scene for a number of years now and it’s the consistency that gives Prince Kaybee the coveted position of top of the pile this year. Don’t tell me I didn’t warn you when you hear the smooth voice of Busiswa on the hit Banomoya. The song comes only months after the hit Club Controlla and is set to be the anthem as far as February. I’m glad he moved home base to Durban from Bloemfontein. Makes me a little prouder. Enjoy the hits and make it a memorable one for the tail end of 2018! * Moodliar is on East Coast Radio between midnight and 4am every weekday. You can keep up with him via @IamSirshin on Twitter and SirshinMoodliar on Instagram POST