Durban - Protestors carrying placards took to the streets of Phoenix for a second time in less than a year after construction work was noted at the site of a proposed tavern owned by a local businessman Members of the Woodview Ratepayers’ Association protested outside the Woodview Shopping Centre on Friday, demanding action against the impending development. They said they had received no feedback from authorities since their last demonstration in March. On Friday, association members handed over memoranda detailing their concerns to the KZN Liquor Authority, the eThekwini Municipality and the complex’s body corporate. The tavern is believed to be owned by Trevor “Tees” Gopal, who owns a sports bar in nearby Grove End. Last March, Gopal was arrested by the Hawks when 2kg of cocaine, with a street value of R1million, was allegedly found at his La Mercy home. The case is being investigated. The association’s chairman, Theo Pillay, said rumours about the tavern surfaced last year. “We protested and handed a memorandum with our concerns to the body corporate but did not get a response. "About a month ago, residents told us construction had started inside the tavern and we requested a meeting with the body corporate, who confirmed a tavern would be built.” He said they needed answers on who had approved a liquor licence for a tavern to operate in a residential area. “Taverns and shebeens are gateways to drugs, prostitution and crime and if it is built, it will be near a religious site and a school. This is not acceptable.” He added: “This is a good neighbourhood in which to raise a family. Other than a bottle store, we don’t have a tavern, unlike other parts of Phoenix where there’s one on virtually every street corner. "We are going to fight to prevent this tavern from being built, even if we have to take legal action.” The body corporate chairman, Alan Kistnasami, said Gopal owned two units at the complex which he bought from someone. “When the units are sold to an individual, the body corporate has no control over the sale or power to prevent it. “As long as the business is legal and the individual has the necessary licence, that person can open whatever he or she wants to.” He said they could intervene only if the individual broke corporate rules or municipal by-laws. The chief executive of the KZN Liquor Authority, Elliot Mashile, who was at the protest, assured residents that an investigation would be launched into how a liquor licence was granted for a residential area. “I cannot just revoke the licence, but I can investigate these complaints and sit down with the association to pave a way forward.” Sham Maharaj, who represented the city, said: “A liquor store cannot be opened so close to religious sites and schools. We will need to investigate.” DA MPL George Mari said: “Phoenix is polluted by taverns and it is breaking down our community.” Resident Saras Govender, 61, said a tavern would attract drug dealers and lead to prostitution, while Sagai Pather, 60, said they should rather have set up a service to benefit the community. Pastor Alan Lutchman, of the Covenant Christian Fellowship, said his church was about five minutes from the site. “This tavern will cause problems for patrons at the shopping centre. We also need to think about the future of the youth and what effect a tavern will have on them.” Gopaul could not be reached for comment at the time of publication. POST