Durban - Moved by the lack of children’s story books at a school library in a village in India, a Durban academic started a drive to collect books to equip the library. Dr Prem Ramlachan, of Newlands West, discovered the school library was equipped with one children’s story book during a tour of his ancestral village of Bijrawan in Madhya Pradesh, India, in 2012. Knowing the importance of education and inculcating a habit of reading among children, he knew he needed to act; and, on his return to South Africa, started a book collection drive via Adams & Griggs booksellers. In the process, not only had he found his family but also earned the respect and admiration of the villagers he has come to love. Ramlachan, 59, an adjunct academic in the School of Public Environmental Affairs for Mancosa, was inspired by his grandmother, Parbathy Ramlachan, to trace his family roots when South Africa commemorated the 150th anniversary of the arrival of Indians in the country in 2010. Using his great-grandfather Thoban Malthoo’s details, Ramlachan headed for the Durban Archives Repository in Greyville and unearthed his ancestral lineage to the province of Madhya Pradesh. “I learnt that in 1906, at the age of 16, my great-grandfather came to Durban from Bijrawan in the Tikamgarh district where he was a Hindu priest. He had eight children, one of whom was my grandfather Ramlachan Malthoo,” said the father of two. “Under the guidance of the deputy director of the Durban Archives, Rishi Singh, I accessed a copy of the ship’s lists of Indian immigrants, which had details of my great-grandfather.” With the assistance of friends and family, including the office of the Consulate General of India in Durban and UKZN post-doctoral fellows Arvind and Pralav Bhatt from India, Ramlachan’s contact details were forwarded to the district collector and magistrate’s office in Tikamgarh. “I sent them a letter and attached a copy of the ship’s immigration list. I kept in touch with this office for some time and eventually AK Jain, an official employed with the district collector’s office, linked me with Shri Harish Chand Yadav, who had confirmed Thoban Malthoo and his great-grandfather were brothers.” In December 2011, Ramlachan and about 20 members of his family - including his wife Molly, children and a senior member of the Ramlachan family, Dr Prithy Ramlachan - flew to India to meet their relatives. “The welcome was overwhelming. We met at Hotel Fortview, which is owned by Rajah Saab in Tikamgarh. "It was filled with pomp fit for royalty. There was a sea of people, which included senior members of the Yadav family, members of the media as well as hotel staff and villagers. "We were interviewed by the media, who inundated us with questions and the excitement was palpable. “Our three-day stay was covered by BCN news anchor Anurag Dixit and the local newspapers. “We desperately needed interpreters and found an angel in the form of Gaurav Khare, a local in Tikamgarh, and his brother, both of whom acted as interpreters during our stay.” He said the family conducted a prayer at a Lord Shiva temple, where the families were spiritually bonded once again, and later visited their ancestral village in Bijrawan. “The entire village together with the secretary general, Abjay Parthab Singh, of the BJP in Tikamgarh, and the police commissioner, attended. "The music blared as the villagers clapped and danced, while rituals were being performed. We were speechless and responded by joining in the singing, dancing and festivities.” Ramlachan said they were taken to a hilltop shrine where his great-grandfather used to meditate. “We were also informed he had loved cows and had started a dairy farm - which he also did in Greenwood Park, Durban.” Finding that he could not stay away, Ramlachan returned to the village a year later, in 2012, where he visited a local school. “The principal took me to the library and, to my dismay, I found that they had only one reading book for children. From that day, I made it my duty to help equip the library with books and started a book collection drive. "With the help from my family, I managed to collect more than 100 books and had them shipped to India. I visited the village again in 2013 for the official handing-over ceremony.” Ramlachan said the excitement on the children’s faces was all the reward he needed. The Ramlachan family still stays in contact with their relatives from India through regular visits. “In 2015, my uncle Udie Ramlachan and his family visited the village and distributed clothing and other items to families.” The family is also part of the Joyti Jivanam Movement of South Africa where they assist needy families with food hampers. “It is in our blood to help. For us, service is a calling and not a job. "We regard both South Africa and India as our homes and our aim is to empower and help communities from these countries.” POST