Durban - A Phoenix mother believes the five-year prison sentence imposed on her alcoholic son, who beat her with an iron rod on her head and back over a chicken curry dispute, will help him reform. Allen Naidoo, 54, who was initially charged with attempted murder until it was reduced to assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm (GBH), was sentenced in the Verulam Regional Court on Friday. Dressed in a pink shirt and black pinstriped pants, Naidoo sat in the dock with a slight grin on his face during the court proceedings. However, his expression soon changed and tears welled in his eyes as he was escorted to his cell to begin his sentence. He was arrested last February following a dispute with his 74-year-old mother Rampathee Naidoo, with whom he was living at her home in Shastri Park, over a chicken curry meal prepared by his second wife. Naidoo and his second spouse were separated at the time of the incident. After sentencing, his mother, who has not missed a court hearing, said: “I am pleased with the outcome and pray he reforms and receives the help he needs, so he can live a better life.” She said her son had made her life “a misery” and that she would never forget the day he had attacked her. She said the incident, which still gave her nightmares, took place after she asked him why he was eating meat during a fasting period. “My son came home drunk that evening and demanded food. I told him I cooked vegetables but he did not want to eat that. "His wife sent him chicken curry the previous day and he took it from the fridge and began dishing it on his plate. When I told him he should not be eating it, he got angry and began swearing and pushing me around the lounge.” Rampathee said she felt her blood pressure rise and ran to her bedroom to rest. “As I lay on my bed, he repeatedly hit me until I bled, leaving me for dead. I screamed for my neighbours who, thankfully, came to my aid. “He had an iron rod and was screaming at me. He approached my bed and I can remember feeling sharp pains against my head and body as he repeatedly hit me. "There was blood everywhere. I just started screaming to my neighbours for help and after a while he stopped and left the house.” Neighbours alerted the police and paramedics. She was transported to a local hospital and received 14 stitches to her head. She also sustained lacerations to her back. “I had felt sorry for my son and opened my home to him as he was experiencing problems at his wife’s home. He was unemployed and homeless. As a mother, you will always feel empathy for your child.” During sentencing, Naidoo’s probation officer, T Sikhakhane, said a jail term would suffice for the crime committed. “Upon investigating the accused’s criminal records, it was found that he had been charged with assault of his ex-wife, after stabbing her seven times. This led to their divorce. “It was also found that he has a history of family violence, with a number of cases being opened by relatives, who were attacked with a bottle or knife. "The victim in this matter, his mother, had told me she had a protection order against the accused but with him being her son, she always took him back into her home,” said Sikhakhane. She told the court that Naidoo attempted to go to a rehabilitation centre for alcohol abuse recently, as he had struggled with substance abuse for years. Sikhakhane recommended a jail sentence followed by correctional supervision be handed down. “He brutally assaulted an old woman and not just anyone, but his mother, the woman who has protected him and loved him all his life.” Magistrate Betty (P) Rawheath said there was a risk that people, especially Naidoo’s family, would be in danger if he received only correctional supervision and that the court could not take that risk. “The court has to take into account your family history, difficulties with alcohol abuse and your violent streak. Also the fact that you went to a rehabilitation centre just a few weeks ago means you did not take the initiative months ago, as you were not self-motivated and I had to motivate you to go.” She was concerned as he had assaulted his mother. “This is a very worrying issue. You assaulted your mother. You hurt the woman who has given birth to you. “The court has to hand out a sentence that will serve as a deterrent to you and others, so that the same offence is not committed again. "You will also receive the treatment you need for your alcohol abuse but it can only be done while you are serving your sentence. Hopefully you will be reformed on your release.” Rawheath added that violence in families was rife in communities. “Many women remain silent just to preserve relationships, keep their families intact or for financial reasons.” POST