Durban - There is still time to chart your future career with POST by applying for bursaries for tertiary study offered by two leading private higher education institutions – the Management College of Southern Africa (Mancosa) and Berea Technical College. Mancosa is a leading distance educational provider of business and management programmes. The POST/Mancosa Bursary is for one of the institution’s one year, semester-based Higher Certificate programmes – accounting, business management, human resource management, IT, local government and development management, marketing, project management, public management, public sector procurement, supply chain management as well as tax administration. The institution’s public relations and events co-ordinator, Sumayah Noorgat, said Mancosa had teamed up with POST to provide a helping hand to those who cannot afford the programme. “Education is the only currency of the future and through the bursary fund, we seek to equip talented and deserving individuals,” she said. Meanwhile, Berea Technical College has offered five bursaries for six of its National Certificate programmes, which include engineering, business studies and travel and tourism. The college’s executive manager, Sibongiseni Magwaza, said: “The total amount of these full bursaries are R200 000. Students can study the course up to three years.” Magwaza added that their lecturers go the extra mile in helping students achieve their full potential, making them the best institution of choice. “Some of our strategies are extended lecture periods, increased frequency of assessments, bridging and foundation programmes, support programmes offered free of charge on Saturdays and holistic programmes that support maths lecturers and learners, among others. “Berea Tech provides students with a complete educational package and allows national diploma graduates access to the student placement programme, which facilitates employment or in-service training placements for the graduates. “We also have an understanding with the Durban University of Technology to accept our students (if they meet the requirements) to continue or further their study at that institution if they chose.” Details for entrance is in POST Newspaper. POST