Durban - Standing in the witness stand for more than a week, Dinesh Nana continues to testify against Blaine Raman, who is accused of kidnapping, robbing and killing Overport art student, Kurtlee Pillay, 20. Nana, 32, is currently serving an eight-year sentence, while co-accused Bilal Tayob, 33, was sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment, suspended for five years, and under house arrest for three years. Both men confessed to their involvement in Pillay’s death on the night of November 4, 2014. In May 2015, Raman, 30, walked out of the Durban High Court after charges against him were provisionally withdrawn due to insufficient evidence. In April 2016, charges were reinstated after confessions were made by former co-accused, Nana and Tayob. Nana took to the witness stand on Monday, where he was cross-examined by Raman’s attorney, Anand Nepaul. Slumped over in his seat, the seemingly timid Nana looked drained as he began to answer questions from the defence. Nepaul presented several exhibits where Nana was asked to verify information. Nepaul questioned Nana on his knowledge of the Overport area, to which he responded he knew fairly well. Nana was then shown images where he had to mark where the series of events took place. Pillay was stabbed over 40 times, then driven in his car to West Riding Road in Sherwood, and thrown over a metal barrier alongside the road. Raman, Tayob and Nana later returned to the scene to ensure that Pillay was dead. Raman then allegedly drove over him. Nepaul further questioned Nana on his statement to the police, which Nana admitted was initially given without any legal representative present. Speaking about the statement he gave, Nana said: “I was being questioned by the investigating officer at the time. I was still drugged from the night before, but I understood fully what was being asked.” Nana said he was beaten by police. “When I got to the station, I was assaulted by officers in a room at Sydenham SAPS. I was slapped repeatedly and kicked while handcuffed. They told me, ‘you are going to talk!’ He said his dad arrived shortly afterwards and was upset that he had given a statement without legal representation. Taking Nana through Exhibit G, his plea bargain, which details Pillay’s death, Nepaul questioned him on its contents. Nana said his legal team had asked him to just verify what Tayob said in his plea agreement. Nepaul accused Nana of fabricating the truth. “The facts are not the same.” Raman has pleaded not guilty to the charges of kidnapping, robbery with aggravating circumstances and murder. He is currently out on bail. According to Nana’s testimony, Pillay was killed after Raman suspected Pillay of chatting to his ex-girlfriend. He told the court last week that when they had pushed Pillay into Raman’s vehicle, Pillay was made to unlock his phone. Raman apparently saw messages between Pillay and Raman’s ex-girlfriend. He allegedly saw messages where Pillay and the girl were calling each other “sweetie” and asked how Pillay could betray him. The trial continues. POST