Durban - After fighting crime and serving his country for over three decades, a retired policeman decided his next career path would entail making a contribution to society through education. Doraval Govender, of Pretoria, was appointed a full professor at the University of South Africa (Unisa) earlier this month. The 61-year-old has proved his theory that education does not have an age limit. After retiring in 2008, the former Major-General studied towards his PhD in criminology at Unisa and graduated in 2012. Govender said he always wanted to serve the people of his country. After completing his standard eight at Greyville Secondary School, he worked at the library at the then University of Durban-Westville but later realised he needed to fulfil his dreams. In 1973 he joined the Chatsworth SAPS and completed his training at the Wentworth Police Training College. The former Kharwastan resident held junior, middle, senior and top management positions in the Uniform and Detective Services throughout the years. “I wanted to join the force from a young age and despite earning a lowly salary of R49 a month, I was happy and motivated to climb up the ranks.” While fighting crime, the father of three also kept his heads in the books. In 1983 he obtained a diploma in police administration and a BA honours degree in police science in 1995. He also has a diploma in education, training and development practice from the Rand Afrikaans University; completed a presidential strategic leadership development programme at the University of North West; an MTech in forensic investigation via UNISA; and a DLitt et Phil in criminology through the same university. “I not only wanted to fight crime, but to go one or two steps further and find out the reasons behind different crimes. I wanted to learn about the mindsets of criminals, victims and the adjudication system. I wanted answers as to why people commit crimes.” While completing his PhD, the grandfather of two joined Unisa as a lecturer in 2009, becoming a senior lecturer in 2011, an associate professor in 2014 and now professor. “Policing was my first dream, which I fulfilled as a senior police officer, serving the SAPS at top management level. After I retired, I decided it was time to make a contribution to society,” he said. Govender is a National Research Foundation accredited researcher with a C3 rating. “Through my research on policing and security related areas, I am able to share this knowledge with others with the same passion.” He still conducts presentations on crucial areas of policing and advises members on the importance of academic advancement. His fondest memory on the force, he said, was being coached by colleagues who joined the SAPS from the 1950s to 1980s. “They were meticulous and knowledgeable despite not having a secondary or higher education. I salute these colleagues, who helped make me into who I am today.” POST