Durban - Two of the four serial house robbers who targeted mainly Indian homes for gold jewellery, were sentenced to a combined total of 40 years in jail for their involvement in dragging, beating and stabbing an elderly Effingham Heights couple during a violent home invasion in 2016. Sanele Praisegod Ngidi, 25, and Sibusiso Phewa, 36, were sentenced in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Friday. They were found guilty of housebreaking with the intent to rob and steal, and robbery with aggravating circumstances as well as attempted murder, for which both were given 12 years each. A further eight years each were added for assaulting and robbing Durban resident Dillwyn Owen Williams, while trying to make a getaway. Ngidi and Phewa, dressed in jeans and T-shirts, looked indifferent when Magistrate Anand Maharaj passed judgment. The co-accused, of KwaMashu, the court heard, were said to be serial house robbers, who targeted mainly Indian owned homes in and around Durban for gold jewellery. Included in Phewa’s sentence, was judgment for a house robbery in November 2006, where he broke into the home of Rehana Amichand, of Reservoir Hills, and stole electronic equipment and jewellery. Phewa had 31 previous housebreaking convictions. Maharaj said the victims involved were elderly people, who deserved to live out their lives with integrity. “I have considered all the factors involved. I want to make you think about what you have done and to prevent you from doing something like this again.” He said it may be possible for Ngidi to receive some sort of rehabilitation as opposed to Phewa, who had 31 previous counts of housebreaking against him. “I want to use this opportunity to warn you Ngidi, that should you turn housebreakings into serious offences, the possibility is quite high that you could be sentenced to a very long imprisonment.” He said the impression he got when reading the charge sheets was that the duo were “serial robbers”. “It looks like you just go around committing these offences with no regard.” Taking this into consideration, Maharaj said he would have to follow with appropriate sentences. The victims, Sathiaseelan Arumugam Chetty, 72, and his wife, Patchamma (Celia), 72, said they were pleased with the judgment and sentencing. “I am very happy with the outcome. I now have better faith in police and the justice system. When we heard of the sentencing we were overjoyed at the excellent news,” said Chetty. On September 18, 2016, Phewa and Ngidi, with two other armed men, broke into the couple’s home and assaulted Chetty and Patchamma with a firearm and hammer. They also stabbed Chetty in the head with a screwdriver before making off with an assortment of jewellery, watches and cuff links. In his affidavit to court, presented by State Prosecutor Kuveshni Pillay, Chetty detailed the day they were attacked. “At about 10.55am, I was in my lounge, reading the newspaper, while my wife was in the kitchen preparing breakfast. "I suddenly heard a loud noise behind me at the patio door. I turned around and noticed four men walk in. "One of the men came straight to me and pointed a firearm at me and asked if anyone else was in the house.” Chetty said he responded by asking the armed assailant, “what is happening?”. He said three of the other invaders subsequently ran towards the kitchen where his wife was. “One of the men grabbed her from behind. The man pointing the firearm at me, started asking me about a safe, money and firearms. "He started pushing me towards the bedrooms but I could not walk properly because I previously had a stroke. After asking me to walk faster, the man pulled out a screwdriver from his trousers and stabbed me in the head. I fell to the floor.” Chetty who had to receive six stitches to his forehead, said he managed to trip one of the men before he could flee and got a good look at him. A week after the arrests, the senior citizen said he identified two of the suspects at an identity parade at the Greenwood Park police station. In her written affidavit, Celia said she ran out of the kitchen when she heard a scream. “I immediately went to the lounge to check on my husband. I heard the crunch of the door and saw shadows outside. I knew then that we were going to be robbed, so I went to press the alarm. “I felt someone holding me with two hands around my waist. The same person pushed me up the stairs and when we reached the last step, he pushed me onto the floor face down. "He began dragging me by my hand into the bedroom and asked me where the safe was. I told him there was no safe.” Celia said two other men entered the room and began ransacking the cupboards. “I was face down the entire time and got up only when it went quiet. I saw my husband lying in the passage and he told me the suspects had left. "I then got up and went to the window and screamed for my neighbours. Some of them were already in my yard. I then went into the lounge and sat down. I sustained injuries to my shoulder blade, ribs and left foot.” According to evidence led in court, the fleeing gang stopped a passing motorist, Dillwyn Owen Williams, after their vehicle had a tyre blow-out on uMhlangane Road near the intersection of Corobrick Road. They assaulted him and forcefully took his Honda CRV along with a laptop, a silver grey Samsung tablet, two binoculars, a torch and the victim’s driver’s licence. The vehicle that was fitted with a tracking device was later found abandoned on a dirt road in Ntuzuma. The co-accused have 14 days from judgment to appeal the sentence. The remaining suspects are still at large. POST