Durban - Healthy eating and regular yoga has helped a Pietermaritzburg great grandfather reach the milestone age of 100. Palanghangi Govender, of Raisethorpe, wakes up at the crack of dawn every day, spends an hour doing yoga, eats a healthy breakfast comprising cereal and fruit with honey and toast, before taking a walk in his garden. This routine, he believes, is the key to his long life. On January 30, Govender turned 100 and his family held a party for him to commemorate the milestone. The retired builder, a grandfather of 11, who lives with his family, has a clean bill of health and at his advanced age still reads newspapers without glasses. Govender’s parents, Kupumuthu and Alamalu, arrived in South Africa from southern India in the 1900s and worked as indentured labourers. They were among the first Indians to settle in the then farming area of Raisethorpe. “We lived in a mud house with my six sisters and brothers and did everything by candlelight. The closest water tap was about half a mile away,” reminisced Govender. He attended Woodlands Indian Boys’ School but left to find a job to help support his family. “My parents were farmers and their vegetables were sold at the local market. Times were hard and I had to leave school in the sixth standard to help at the market.” Govender later secured a job as a builder and went on to erect his parents’ home. “Raisethorpe started to evolve from a farm into a suburb. I built homes for our family and we eventually had electricity connected and running water.” In 1947, he married Govindama and they had six children. But in 1964, at the age of 34, she died after a short illness. Govender has lived through many historic developments, including World War II, apartheid, the 1949 riots and the Group Areas Act. “Back then, things were difficult in our country. Colour divided us. Today I am happy that despite our country’s challenges, we are free. Our government, however, must ensure more is done to improve South Africa.” Despite all the changes that have taken place over the years, Govender has kept his culture and faith. “I built a temple dedicated to my family deity, Lord Muruga, where we still pray daily and take part in the Thai Poosam Kavady festival,” he said proudly. Govender, who enjoys gardening, still loves traditional Indian food but not too spicy or oily. He has six children: Ruby, 69, a retired nurse; Indrani, 67, retired; Sundrie, 61, a mechanic; and Sathie, 59, an administration clerk; and Balan, 50, a former policeman. His sixth child died at the age of five. Govender said hard work and a refusal to accept failure had helped build his character, adding: “ “I am happy God has kept me healthy for 100 years.” POST