Durban - Delving where no man would often want to go, a brave professor, astrophysicist and author has launched his first e-book, How to Lose your Wife in Sixty Seconds, a hard-hitting read that lays bare the realities of being married. Megandhren Govender, 47, a professor of mathematics at the Durban University of Technology, said while researching and interacting with people, it had become painfully obvious that many found themselves unhappily married, yet they portrayed a different reality. “Human beings are masters of disguise and the greatest of pretenders. Many people live Facebook lives. We don’t get to witness the ‘behind-the-scenes’ truths,” said Govender, of Athlone Park, Amanzimtoti. “In this book, I lay the blame squarely on husbands. However, that’s not to say that women aren’t to blame. "The book addresses mental and physical abuse, jealousy, possessiveness, cheating, trophy wives and we even present a formula, which gives you a hubby rating, determining how effective you are as a husband.” The book is written in a matter-of-fact style and will appeal to married couples, people in relationships as well as singletons. It is serious, yet humorous, intelligent and inspiring. Govender said he began writing the book three years ago and completed it last month. The father of two, who is married to chiropractor and motivational coach Dr Neetu Govender, said his biggest challenge was that he was an astrophysicist and people often expected him to be emotionally disconnected. “To get people to speak about their problems, I just trained myself to listen and offer solutions. "The more I engaged with people, the more apparent it became that a large percentage of people who were married or in relationships were not happy. This formed the basis of my book.” Govender added that he was not a fan of fiction and his inspiration to write was derived from music and artists, including Bob Marley, Anita Baker, Sade, the Pet Shop Boys, Michael Jackson, Stevie Wonder and Phil Collins. He added that it was important for writers to “keep it simple, truthful and always write beautifully”. “I definitely have plans to write a second book. Surely we also need to blame women for some of the unhappiness we endure as married men,” he laughed. Govender, who describes himself as quirky, crazy and colourful, spends his spare time studying UFOs (ufology), visiting the gym and YouTubing. His book is available as an e-book on Amazon.com and can be downloaded at no cost between February 10 and 15 in time for Valentine’s Day. POST