Durban - A group of concerned Hindus, on a mission to prevent a century-old temple being moved from its premises in Mobeni Heights, have accused board members of failing to preserve history and want them replaced. The group, headed by Habi Singh, who is also a trustee at the Mobeni Heights Civic Association, will hold a public meeting on March 3 to “save” the site and hall of the 103-year-old Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple. The temple hall had been used since the 1970s and trustees have cited dwindling numbers and the lack of funds as reasons for relocating to a new, undisclosed, location nearby. Temple president Lokesh Ramnath Maharajh had previously told POST that disposing of the property and building would not mean the end of the temple, but a continuation of its activities elsewhere. But Singh is angered that the board had not garnered public opinion before making what he alleged was a unilateral decision. “Since the temple is an NPO, the board needed to inform concerned Hindus that they were contemplating selling. And from what I have gathered, this was never done. “So we as the civic association will hold a public meeting and give a voice to those who want to save the temple. “It is one of the oldest and biggest temples in the province and, since its keepers cannot do their jobs, we will play our part to preserve this piece of history,” he said. Singh, who is not a devotee at the temple, added: “The temple is a landmark for us. It was originally built in Clairwood, but during apartheid the government wanted to take it away from us, but our people rebuilt it in Mobeni Heights. "And like a phoenix, it rose from the ashes and looked more beautiful and created more miracles. “The original temple was demolished to make way for the Southern Freeway. For us, this temple is a symbol of the spirituality that conquered those people who tried to destroy the temple for good.” Singh is hopeful the public meeting, which will take place a day before the temple’s annual general meeting, will shed some light on the way forward. “I want to hear the opinions of concerned Hindus on whether this temple (site) should be sold or the board members removed.” A devotee said the possible closure had disheartened her and her family. “There are devotees who are strongly opposing the relocation. In fact, a meeting was held a few weeks ago and from what I have heard, the people were merely informed of the decision.” She claimed that those intent on selling do not attend weekly services. “They had not committed to Hindi classes, so they cannot use the excuse of ‘dwindling numbers’. If every executive member showed up with their families, the place would be full. They just show up when an event is publicised,” she alleged. The woman, who requested anonymity, said meetings are being “monopolised” and people’s opinions shut down. “That raises some red flags, does it not? They said they were concerned about our safety. But is safety guaranteed anywhere? "Can they not provide security for two hours a day during service and during Sanskrit classes? "The temple is not just a building, it’s a legacy left behind by some of the most learned people of our community. Giving up on it would be giving up on everything that those great gurus stood for.” The president of the SA Hindu Maha Sabha, Ashwin Trikamjee, said it had been engaging with temple management since learning of the possible relocation. “We were informed that the annual income received does not even cover one month and the hall itself, which seats 1 000 people, is not being used. “They also mentioned there were a spate of armed robberies that led to a drop in the number of devotees attending service and they further believe that if they relocate, their numbers will increase.” Despite attempts, Maharajh had not commented at the time of publication. * The public meeting will take place on March 3 at the Mobeni Heights Civic Hall at 2pm and the temple’s AGM is set for March 4 at the temple premises at 2pm. POST