Durban - Talks of the Minority Front being a “dying horse” were shot down by leader Shameen Thakur-Rajbansi at the party’s first National Conference, at the Pavilion Hotel on Durban’s North Beach on Saturday. The party, which was founded by her late husband and former leader Amichand Rajbansi, also commemorated its 25th anniversary on the day. “Where we could have been crushed after his death, we fought hard. "There was internal strife and a leadership battle, as we did not have a clear succession plan in place. "This led to a lot of blood-letting. People were against me fulfilling the role as leader because I am a woman. They believed that leadership was a man’s domain. They also did not think I would put up a fight,” said Thakur-Rajbansi. But education, she added, was her key weapon. “It was a threat and today still remains a threat to many male leaders. They have learnt from knowledge. I did not learn from them. I don’t boast about it but I can teach them the right way to do things. “People don’t like that, especially coming from a woman. So when it came to the battle for leadership, my opponents knew I was not the dirty type and used hard tactics to scare me but I don’t scare so easily.” After her husband’s death, she was embroiled in bitter court battles and internal squabbles weakened the party. She came under intense scrutiny, with many discrediting her educational qualifications and ability to uphold her husband’s legacy. But she was ready to fight back. Through the challenges since Rajbansi’s death in 2011, she admitted she felt as though she was left to hold a fragile cake between her hands and tried not to drop it. But she has remained undeterred and will continue to ensure her husband’s legacy, of uplifting the rights of minority communities, is upheld. She said the party was now on its way to restoring the faith of communities. “Our voters went off in different directions after seeing the party was in trouble with court battles and people fighting for power internally. ''They lost faith in us but I could not disappoint those who invested all their time and had supported us from inception. "Also, the legacy of Mr Rajbansi was at stake. Something had to be done. “We can now say we have amended our constitution and have a firm succession plan in place. We will now work at regaining the trust and support of our voters.” The 54-year-old pharmacist-turned-politician said voters today knew exactly what they were looking for in a political party. “They have a tick-box. That is why we have a proper amended constitution that has been ratified and the amendments have been adopted by a national conference. "We have also expanded from a five-member NEC to seven members. We will be working hard, sitting together and having regular meetings, always showing transparency and accountability.” The newly-elected NEC members include: former member of the KZN legislature, Vimmi Ramdaas-Bachu; former KwaDukuza municipality councillor Vikrum Sing; the youngest member of the committee Priyanka Nunkumar, a law graduate; one of the founding members of the MF, Sunklavathy (Margaret) Rajbally; newly-elected treasurer, Viresh Bhana and newly-elected party secretary, councillor Jonathan Annipen. Thakur-Rajbansi said the party obtained one seat in the province in the last provincial and national election but they aimed to regain their lost seat in KZN and getting back to the National Assembly. In the run up to the 2019 elections, the party, she said, was on a stable trajectory. “We have gotten rid of the negativity and the party has definitely evolved. "We will now work on funding, so we can appear in the provincial and national ballots. We have acquired a treasurer, something which will help the party going forward. “We will need to do a lot of fund-raising,” she, adding that there was a dire need for the Minority Front to exist. “South Africa is still a very young democracy and minorities have many fears and expectations that the MF can allay and fulfill their expectations.” POST