Durban - As you enter the old Durban Railway Station building on Monty Naicker Road in the CBD, you cannot help but admire the preserved original stained-glass high ceilings in the foyer, marble floors and walls and wrought-iron staircase railings dating back to 1892. This sizeable building was built using red bricks and stands tall and bold at the street corner. The roof plans were accidentally switched by the architects and, as a result, this railway station got the roof design that was meant for the Toronto Railway Station in Canada and vice versa. At the entrance, you will find a bust of Mahatma Gandhi, which is meant to commemorate him purchasing a first class train ticket to Johannesburg in June, 1893. While en-route to Pietermaritzburg, someone had complained about a non-white passenger in the first class compartment and Gandhi was forcibly removed in KZN’s capital. He had been separated from his luggage and was forced to spend the cold night in a shed. It is said that this is where Gandhi’s philosophies on passive resistance originated. Today, this more than a century old Victorian style railway station will house hundreds of students, who will be attending the private higher education institute, Berea College of Technology, which will open next month. The institutes’s rector, Professor Chandru Kistan, said they decided to buy the building due to its rich history. “The railway station was significant for a number of reasons. It not only played a key role in the establishment of a city but also facilitated the growth and development of the community that represents the diversity of modern South Africa. “It was also along this railway that Gandhi was forcibly removed from the train for refusing to move from the ‘whites only’ cart.” A plaque at the station reads: “Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi took the first step in his struggle against all forms of discrimination and oppression when he boarded a train at the Durban station”. “We believe it was fitting for the new institute to open at this building as it is where Gandhi started his journey, making his mark in history. We want our students to believe the same and let this historical landmark be the start of their journey.” The building, which has been declared a historical landmark, was previously occupied by the Indian Consul and Tourist Junction - the main tourism centre for Durban. Professor Kistan was approached by the chief executives of the Berea Technical College, which has been in existence for 19 years, after they decided to expand their curriculum and offer a higher education division. “I was contacted by the executives to do a gap analysis after they purchased the Durban Computer College with their programmes, which had three different levels of education, one of which was higher education. “I found that the premises was not suitable as a higher education institute as the facilities were below standard requirements of the national higher education sector. "After I had given my analysis, they had asked me to join them as a principal, which would allow me to make recommendations. The first was renaming Durban Computer College to Berea College of Technology.” The next quest, he said, was to find premises. “The executives began looking around and decided on this. It is centrally located, has a rich history, is spacious and creates an image of a higher education institute.” He continued: “We are excited about the new venture. We will have two faculties, information technology and commerce, and will offer seven programmes. We are expecting over 700 new students and 200 will complete their second and third year studies.” POST