Durban - Homework instils discipline, helps build character and aids in development, and this will hold Grade R to Grade 7 pupils in good stead as they progress to high school and college, say parents. Others are of the opinion that schools need to address the volume of daily homework, which has become a strain on their little ones. Mother of two, Munira Essop, of Whetstone, Phoenix, believes schools should strike a balance between the two. Her daughter, Lameez, 12, a Grade 7 pupil at a local primary school, she said, was swamped with work. “She gets home at 2.15pm, eats and then hits the books. She does not go outside for fresh air or watch television. On good days, her homework is complete by 5.30pm and on others at around 7pm. Lameez gets homework for every subject almost every day as well as assessments for the term.” Essop, 40, a community activist, said she did not have a problem with her child getting homework, but too much of it was robbing the youngster of enjoying life. “Schools should consider lightening children’s workloads, so there is a balance between work and play.” Chatsworth sales consultant Chiren Thamanna says homework is vital to a child’s development. His six-year-old daughter, Tamryn, is a Grade R pupil and already gets daily homework. “Their minds are developing all the time and homework aids in that development,” said Thamanna, 28. “If they become too relaxed at home, it may become difficult for them to grasp what is being taught in class.” Speaking on her after school schedule, he said she returned home at 1.30pm, eats, watches a bit of television and does her homework. “On Wednesday afternoons and on Saturdays, she attends dance classes for an hour.” For working mom, Jamielee Ramlutch, homework gives her insight into what her child is learning at school. Ramlutch, 27, of Grove End, Phoenix, a sales consultant, said her son, Liam Brenton, seven, a Grade 1 pupil, finishes school at 1.30pm and a private transport provider leaves him at crèche until 5.30pm. “While at crèche, he is helped with his homework, but there are days when it is incomplete, and I have to assist him. “Homework must be given to children during the week. Play time and sporting activities must be left for the weekend,” said Ramlutch. Lynette Fiona Naidoo, 32, a sales consultant, from Chatsworth, added: “I don’t think they should implement this no homework policy in KZN as our children need as much education as they can get. Homework is important because it teaches children responsibility.” For her son, Darion Drelin, six, a Grade 1 pupil, Naidoo has managed to strike a balance. “After school, he attends soccer practice for an hour, and when he returns home, he eats, has a bath and rests before he tackles his homework.” POST