Durban - Dwindling numbers and a lack of funds are two of the reasons why trustees of a 103-year-old landmark temple are considering relocating it from its present site in Mobeni Heights. The president of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple, Lokesh Ramnath Maharajh, said it was an emotional decision to make. He has, however, assured the few dozen devotees who regularly visit the temple that prayer services would continue at its new undisclosed location should the temple be relocated. “Disposing of the property and building will not mean the end of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple but a continuation of its activities,” Maharajh said. “This is an emotional matter since our predecessors had invested much time and effort in developing the premises. However, this move will honour their legacy even from a different location.” Officials have realised that it was becoming a challenge to fulfil all the roles of conducting religious services, discourses, lectures and conferences from the present location. “The 1000 seater hall, which has been under-utilised by the public for the past five years,” he said, “was not generating income. “At one stage, the temple ran its own package deal for weddings. Sadly, for some reason, the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple hall is no longer a popular wedding venue. "The maintenance costs exceeds the income and monies donated at festivals are being used to maintain it. We also want to relocate because the number of people actively participating in satsangs and other temple activities are small.” There is a distinct possibility that future generations might abandon the activities if the work becomes too much of a burden, Maharajh said. “Therefore, it may be wise to relocate to premises that is better geared to the propagation of the Hindu religion and culture and is not a financial burden to the temple. “We have already identified a vacant land that is suitable for the erection of a new temple with low maintenance costs. The process however will not be rushed into as constitutionally there are several steps to follow before the actual move. “This move will not affect the public and devotees as the relocation will be close by and apart from four or five families living in the area, most of our regular devotees are from areas including the city, Umhlatuzana Township, Marrianhill, Malvern and Silverglen. "We want to assure the public that the temple will not close its doors any time soon. We have mechanisms in place to ensure that activities continue.” Once the temple is relocated, the land and building will be disposed of to any other religious organisation whose objectives are to promote religious morals, education, conduct religious services and help the aged and needy, irrespective of race, colour or creed, he added. The temple was originally built in Clairwood in 1916 by the Clairwood Hindu Young Mens’ Association. Members of the association had rallied to build a wood and iron structure to serve as a venue for religious services and the propagation of Hindu culture. In the early 1970s, they were informed that the temple land would be expropriated by the Durban City Council to make way for the construction of the Southern Freeway. Three possible relocation sites were considered and Greenfern Road in Mobeni Heights, its current location, was chosen. The foundation stone for the present hall was laid on July 30, 1971, with the hall being ready for occupation by July 1973. Donations and funds accumulated by hiring out the hall, led to the construction of the temple shrine. The temple consecration and opening ceremony was held in June 1979. In recent years, there have been major improvements and upgrades, such as a new dining hall and cooking area and new Jhunda area. POST