Opinion - The Board of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple is still deliberating the relocation. The relocation is not a simple process. It is a complex process that involves discussion with the current board members, trustees and bona fide members of the general committee of the temple. Since our original announcement in POST on February 7, there remains only 10 to 15 residents of Mobeni Heights who are bona fide members of the temple and who attend regular activities of the temple. We have received support for the relocation from those who attend the activities and programmes of the temple. Read: “Anger at relocation of 100 year old Temple” As far as consulting the residents about the potential sale of the buildings, we wish to state that in terms of the constitution of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple: “The trustees shall have the power to purchase any land or properties for the temple, also the power to sell, mortgage any land or properties belonging to the temple upon such terms as to interest, repayment of principal and otherwise as that, the trustees, may think fit; provided, however, that such powers shall have been obtained by a two-thirds majority of the members present and voting at any annual general meeting or a special general meeting called for the purpose.” Furthermore, the constitution states: “The members of the board of management may take on the power and authority that it believes it needs to be able to achieve the objectives that are stated in Clause 2 of this constitution. Its activities must abide by the law.” In terms of the above, the temple will consult with all bona fide members of the temple to make a final decision. Furthermore, since the announcement in POST (February 7), there has been no increase in the number of devotees attending temple activities. Even the “concerned Hindus”, some of whom have been living in Mobeni Heights for more than 30 years, have still not started attending temple activities. We wish to reiterate that the temple is not in any financial crisis. As we have previously stated, it is becoming increasingly challenging to fulfil all these roles from the present location of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple in Mobeni Heights. The hall is becoming a liability, as it does not generate sufficient income. The maintenance costs relating to the hall are very high. Our discussion on relocation is based on the future of the temple. We cannot continue to operate from a building that is not generating income and has the strong possibility of not attracting sufficient income in the future. But there have been some individuals who have approached us and we are in discussion with them. While Mr Habi Singh may be a member of the Mobeni Heights Civic Association, he is not a bona fide member of the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple. We wish to repeat that as per the constitution, the power to relocate or sell the buildings rests with the trustees after consultation with bona fide members of the temple. Furthermore, the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple is a “public benefit organisation”. A public benefit organisation is entitled to exemptions available to organisations carrying charitable activities. The act requires that the public benefit organisation conducts its activities in a non-profit manner and with an altruistic or philanthropic intent. The Shri Luxmi Narayan will continue these altruistic and philanthropic activities from a new location. To qualify for recognition as a public benefit organisation, the Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple must conduct a public benefit activity which is defined as any activity listed in part 1 of the ninth schedule of the act. Part 1 of the ninth schedule of the act comprises 11 main categories of activities with the particular types of activities listed in each category. Currently the main categories are as follows: welfare and humanitarian; health care; education and development; religion, belief or philosophy; and cultural. The Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple is therefore a “public benefit organisation” and not a “public organisation”. As far as a “devotee” making allegations that the board is not actively involved at the temple on a weekly basis, we wish to record that we are reluctant to respond to anonymous allegations. However, it is not true. There are 21 members on the board. Naturally, not all 21 members will attend all the time. There is no truth in the allegation. POST