Durban - Umhlanga Rocks corporate attorney Tania Maduray invested R120 000 in a destination wedding in the Midlands and, if she could go back in time, she would have spent more time planning. Other than that, the 31-year-old harbours no regrets. Maduray married Kuben Thaver, a clerk, in February 2014 at the then Windmills Hotel in Nottingham Road with 120 guests present. “I was looking for something picturesque and in the countryside because I absolutely love the crisp clean air and warm vibes. This was only the second venue I visited and the little chapel on the lake stole my heart,” said Maduray. When it came to choosing a theme, she was torn between ballet and vintage and then opted to merge the two. “The colour scheme was ivory, black and white with a hint of silver. I found these colours to be rich and luxurious.” Her wedding invitations were laser cut, pocket type in ivory and white, and her table decor comprised custom-made overlays with lace-encrusted candles. “I later found a supplier in Pietermaritzburg who had some pretty amazing décor and I hired the rest of the items.” She did not opt for too many flowers, she said. Two weeks before the wedding and after numerous late night internet searches, she realised she did not have a lot of “knick knacks” that were incumbent in most weddings. “I then spent a week doing my own seating arrangements, place holders, seating arranging, confetti cones, hymn sheets and menu cards. I would not suggest any bride, who wants to keep her sanity, do this at this late stage,” she chuckled. Maduray, who also made her own as well as her bridesmaids’ fabric flower, jewel-encrusted bouquets, added she did not hold back with photography and videography. “I wanted stunning and creative pictures We also decided to have a photo booth, a string quartet and canapés to entertain guests while we were on shoot.” Finalising the menu, she said, was not the easiest. “I was not happy with anything I tasted. I gave the catering team advice on how they could improve the selection and it turned out great at the end.” Her final menu consisted of butternut soup, peri-peri prawns, mussel hot pot and Greek salad served as starters. Roast lamb, roast chicken, prawn and chicken curry, vegetarian hot pasta, creamed spinach, roast potatoes, butternut and crumbed mushrooms were served as mains. For dessert, guests had a selection of a cheese board, peppermint crisp tart and ice cream. The wedding cake was a three-tier ensemble of lace and pearl with a chocolate sponge. When it came to her dress, Maduray wanted something unconventional. “I’ve always wanted a short wedding dress with a short, side veil and ballet pumps. After many fittings and changes, my designer produced the perfect dress.” A stickler for detail, she also designed her bridesmaids’ dresses. “I’m sure they would describe me as the real ‘bridezilla’. I basically designed the dress and chose the fabric.” Despite it all, the most important part was walking down the aisle with her dad. Looking back, she said she would have timed herself better and made a full and proper list of everything she envisioned a year in advance and stick to it. “I would have also done my hair and make-up trial a few weeks before and not a week before.” Her advice to couples who are planning their wedding this year is to explore all options. “Don’t stick to the first thing you see unless you are absolutely in love with it. Keep it simple where possible but splurge on the important things like photographs. “Also, be fun and creative and most importantly, have fun on the day.” POST