Durban - It has been said that laughter is the best medicine, and this holds true for Mr and Mrs Naidoo of oThongathi, who celebrated their 50th golden wedding anniversary this month. “The secret to enjoying life is having a good ol’ laugh,” said Anand, who was born and raised in the North Coast town. “It’s infectious and positively changes the mood of others around you.” Anand and Chandra, who had an arranged marriage, fell in love at first sight. “I knew that day, of meeting a girl via an arranged marriage, would come and I never fought it,” the now 75-year-old said. “One day my relative took me to see a girl in Frazers (in oThongathi), and when I saw her, I just smiled, and she smiled back. I had instantly fallen in love.” Remembering the moment, Chandra, now 68, added: “When he walked in I did not know what to expect because in those days when your parents said something you had to do it. "But when we made eye contact, I realised how handsome he was and could see myself spending the rest of my life with him.” When he returned home, Anand informed his anxious family that he was happy with their choice and a proposal followed two months later. “I was a baker and used to spend my one day off visiting her at her home with all sorts of treats, including cakes and scones. She was all I could think of.” They tied the knot in a Hindu ceremony four months later at the Gokhale Hall in oThongathi. “Anand wore a beige suit, and I opted for a sari in the same colour,” said Chandra, who added that they had broken all barriers by serving their 400 guests mutton breyani, instead of vegetables. The newlyweds moved in with Naidoo’s family while he continued to work at the bakery. They were blessed with three children - Amsha, Pam and Aven. When asked about their long marriage, they said that love, trust and honesty sustained their relationship. “We are best friends. We go shopping together, watch movies and have long conversations. Couples these days should spend more time speaking to their partners,” Chandra advised. Anand chipped in: “If we have an issue, we talk it through. “You have to air your feelings. It’s better to laugh and joke instead of arguing. It is the best remedy.” They celebrated their milestone anniversary with their children and six grandchildren at a Durban North restaurant and jetted off to India to renew their vows. POST