ONE OF the biggest fashion events of the year, Lakme Fashion Week Summer/Resort 2018, was recently held at the Jio Gardens in Bandra, Mumbai, and again proved to be a fantastic platform for national designers to unite under one brand, to showcase the latest garb and accessories. Over the five days of fashion, we saw current and future trends interpreted by designers, models and local fashion enthusiasts, sporting street style looks and incorporating on- and off-duty style. With two stages and a number of shows each day, everything from exquisite eastern couture to more cool and casual linen summer pieces were showcased. In between shows, guests and attendees were treated to naryal pani (coconut water) and snacks under a floral canopy to stay cool. Alternatively, one could get a closer look at the garments by walking through the showroom where designs were displayed and available to be bought, straight off the runway. Major themes of this year’s event were sustainable fashion and using fashion to save the world. Fashion revolution and activist movements were present, driving campaigns such as recycling plastic water bottles to make fabric, or working with the UN to develop the craft sector and creative economy in North East India. Lakme Fashion Week was graced by many Bollywood celebrities who took to the ramp, walking for their favourite designers. Among the A-listers were Kareena Kapoor Khan, Saif Ali Khan, Shilpa Shetty, Sushmita Sen and Kangana Ranaut. Lakme, being a make-up brand, made it clear that make-up and hair were a priority on the models and celebrities. We saw summer make-up trends being clean and simple, with flawless, glowing skin and minimal yet dramatic eye make-up. Nude lipsticks took centre stage with the newest Lakme Nude reinvented shades being launched at the event and embracing diversity by catering to a large Indian population. The production value of the shows were of the highest standard, with creatively choreographed routines and a unique charm given to each show based on the collections. One of my favourite shows was Shades of Indigo by Gaurang Shah. The entire show was 100% live with a tabla player, a beautiful singer and Barkha Patel, an incredible and internationally renowned kathak dancer. Shah managed to flawlessly conceptualise an ethnic and traditional show and the models even joined in the dance with a few twirls, which complimented his collection of naturally dyed hand-crafted textiles. The event provided a platform for up-and-coming designers under the label of Generation Next. These designers got to make their fashion week debut and opened the week with show one on day one. Following this, we saw a variety of collections, bridal and party, as well as weekend wear, by well-known names including Shyamal and Bhumika, Tarun Tahiliani, Anushree Reddy, House of Kotwara, Anamika Khanna, Payal Singhal and Nishka Lulla. Trends which stood out for me were frills and tassels on saris, as well as statement belts worn with saris. Eastern wear made from cool and lightweight fabrics like organza and tulle in beautiful pastels and fully printed or hand-embroidered fabrics in neutral shades added a classic yet traditional charm to the garments. Colours of the seasons included shades of grey with metallic touches, and layering pastel shades of mint green, pink and blue. Yellow was definitely an underlying colour in most garments, making it the colour of the season and a very apt one. Lakme Fashion Week Summer/ Resort 2018 provided something for everyone to relate to and love. POST