Durban - A Phoenix mother, overcome with grief after her son and his friend were mowed down in a hit-and-run incident almost two years ago, is now able to sleep better after their deaths were avenged. “We welcome the judgment. It was a long wait, but proved worthwhile in the end,” said Naseema Maharaj. “Closure and justice is ultimately what we wanted. With judgment passed, I can sleep better knowing my son’s death was avenged. Now all is left is the sentencing and we can close this chapter.” Emotions ran high in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Friday when judgment against the accused, Kearadilwe Refilwe Modise-Moloto, was passed. The 39-year-old was found guilty of two counts of culpable homicide, failing to perform duties of a driver after an accident, and reckless and negligent driving. The normally composed Modise-Moloto broke down in the dock. While acquitted of the last count, defeating the ends of justice, the overall bad news was too much for her to bear. Modise-Moloto trembled as she walked towards her family. Her mother consoled her as she, too, sobbed. Modise-Moloto had pleaded not guilty to all counts. In May 2016, Phoenix friends Sumeer Maharaj, 26, and Pravin Mahabir, 25, were mowed down by Modise-Moloto on the M4. She chose not to stop at the accident scene and had filed a false accident report in an attempt to repair her car. Modise-Moloto was later arrested. Durban Regional Court Magistrate Fariedha Mohamed said Modise-Moloto’s version of what had transpired was not accepted. She said any reasonable person would have stopped their vehicle. Mohamed praised State and expert witnesses, including Warrant Officer Abdul Samad Musthapa of the Durban Accident Combating Unit, investigating officer Detective Warrant Officer Ruben Moodley and the victims’ friend and accident survivor Junaid Singh, a former tyre business owner. She said the clarity in which they testified was commendable. Naseema Maharaj, whose dad passed away last month, said he would have been pleased with the judgment. “My dad, who waited for justice, would have been happy to know she was found guilty. We are grateful to Warrant Officer Musthapa and Detective Moodley for their hard work in bringing the accused to book,” said the relieved mom of Highstone, Phoenix. Moodley said sadly, the judgment would not bring back the families' loved ones. “But, hopefully, sentencing will send a strong message to others to adhere to, and obey, the rules and regulations of the road.” Musthapa, who conducted the reconstruction on the case that led to the recovery and arrest of the accused as well as proved the series of events that occurred on the day, said he hoped the family would find the closure they needed. “I have interacted and guided the family throughout the legal process and believe justice has indeed prevailed. The investigation and reconstruction was accurate and exactly what the court needed to convict the accused.” Singh, 29, said he feared Modise-Moloto’s legal team would have the sentence reduced. Sumeer Maharaj and Mahabir were killed while helping Singh change a flat tyre on his red Isuzu bakkie on May 18, 2016. Their cars were parked in the emergency lane on the M4 north, near the Blue Lagoon on-ramp, when Modise-Moloto struck them with her black Kia. Sumeer Maharaj, a car spares salesman, died at the scene, and Mahabir, a part-time mechanic, succumbed to his injuries the next day. Modise-Moloto, who is currentlyon bail, will return to court in April for sentencing. POST