Durban - Cinema halls in Bihar capital Patna on Monday began screening Padmaavat amid heavy security arrangements, officials said. The screening in the state capital started a day after two petrol bombs were hurled at a cinema hall where Padmaavat was running in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. “We will not allow anyone to create trouble for the screening of Padmaavat,” Patna Senior Superintendent of Police Manu Maharaj said. According to police officers, the screening of Padmaavat has started in Cinepolis and the Mona cinema hall in Patna. Sources close to a cinema hall owner told IANS the decision to screen Padmaavat was taken following a secret settlement with Shree Rajput Karni Sena which was against any compromise to run the film. Last week, when Padmaavat was officially released across the country, the film was not screened in Patna and across Bihar due to widespread violent protests by Karni Sena and other Rajput organisations against Sanjay Leela Bhansali, the director . In Patna, cinema halls did not take advance booking of tickets and the online booking was stopped following protests and threats by Karni Sena activists. According to reports reaching here, the screening of Padmaavat began in Gaya, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur and other districts in the state on Sunday. In Muzaffarpur town, two petrol bombs were hurled at the Shayam cinema hall on Sunday evening for screening the film. There were 400 people inside the hall at the time. Muzaffarpur superintendent of police Vivek Kumar said no one was injured. Ten days ago, a group of Karni Sena activists attacked a cinema hall in Muzaffarpur, tore up the film’s posters and threatened to set ablaze the hall if the film was screened. Last week, a group of protesters in Nalanda district’s Bihar Sharif town attacked a cinema hall, tore up posters, damaged vehicles and threatened to set the theatre on fire if Padmaavat was shown. Meanwhile, actress Deepika Padukone, who stars in the movie as a Rajput queen, is confident that despite the political furore over the film, its box office collection will be “earth-shattering”. The Sanjay Leela Bhansali directorial has been constantly targeted by politicians and the Shri Rajput Karni Sena, but after all the brouhaha, Padmaavat managed to get the green signal from the Supreme Court. When Deepika was asked what message or response she had for the people who were constantly opposing the release, she said: “I think there is time for everything and the film has spoken for itself as most have given their reactions to our film (through screenings and press shows) and it’s been absolutely phenomenal.” “I feel, in a way, the best response we can give to anyone is through the work we do. I am very emotional at this point. "I am not someone who has ever been excited so much about box-office numbers but I have to say that this time I am. "I think it’s going to be earth-shattering,” said Deepika on the sidelines of the HT Most Stylish Awards 2018. Padmaavat is based on the epic poem by Malik Muhammad Jayasi. The film narrates the story of Padmavati, a Rajput queen who committed “jauhar” to protect herself from Sultan Alauddin Khilji. Deepika stars as Rani Padmavati, with Shahid Kapoor as Maharaja Ratan Singh and Ranveer Singh as Khilji. Aditi Rao Hydari, Jim Sarbh, Raza Murad and Anupriya Goenka feature in supporting roles. The film is produced by Sudhanshu Vats, Ajit Andhare and Bhansali. POST