Durban - Phoenix was a hive of activity last week as scores of police, accompanied by Police Minister Fikile Mbalula, swooped on one of Durban’s biggest drug cartels and arrested an alleged drug kingpin. The man, his wife, brother and four other men believed to be their bodyguards, were arrested at their home in Swallowhaven Road on Thursday following a joint operation between various police specialised units, including the Provincial Organised Crime unit, National Intervention Unit and Durban metro police. KZN police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said drugs valued at R80000 were recovered during the raid. “Police recovered two pistols, a shotgun, 64 live rounds of ammunition, 1836 heroin caps, 138 heroin straws, 80 large crack cocaine pieces, 30 mandrax tablets, three bags of cocaine, ecstasy and dagga. "A sum of R97000, suspected to be the proceeds from drugs, was also confiscated.” The following day police returned to the scene accompanied by Mbalula and arrested a 19-year-old woman for possession of drugs, rock cocaine and mandrax worth R20000. According to a source, the suspects are alleged to be part of a notorious gang known as the "Bloodz". Seven of the suspects facing charges of dealing in drugs, failing to safeguard firearms, assault, crimen injuria and resisting arrest, appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Friday. They were remanded in custody and are expected to appear in court tomorrow for a formal bail application. The 19-year-old woman appeared in court on Monday and was also remanded in custody. Phoenix Community Policing Forum chairman Umesh Singh said the community welcomed all drug-related arrests. KwaZulu-Natal Acting Provincial Commissioner, Major-General Bheki Langa, welcomed the arrests. “This proves that our dedicated team is determined to clamp down on drug dealers. "Earlier this month, drugs worth more than R400000 was also recovered in the CBD. These operations will continue throughout the province to clean our streets from drug dealers.” POST