Durban - In 2002, when Margaret Barbeau travelled to India on a pilgrimage to her ancestral village in Tiruvannamalai, Tamil Nadu, her heart sank as she watched children carrying buckets of water from a river to their homes. Then and there, Barbeau vowed to help the community by building a borehole. She believed it would provide them with a safer and easier way to access water. There have been a few financial stumbling blocks along the way since then, but that did not deter the determined 80-year-old Wentworth resident. Her close ties with India stemmed from her mother, Nagama Chetty, who travelled to South Africa by ship on the SS Umlazi in 1910 to work as an indentured labourer on sugar cane estates with her brothers. Barbeau does not recall much about her father, Viruragal Chetty, as he died when she was three. Her parents, said Barbeau, then moved into a wood and iron home in Stanger, where they raised their 13 children. She was the youngest. A few years later, the family relocated to Malvern, where her mother worked as a midwife. In 2002, using her mother’s birth certificate, which had recorded the name of her village, Barbeau visited the Durban Archives Repository in Greyville and began tracing her family roots to Tiruvannamalai. In the same year, with the help of Padma Mudliar, a pastor from Chennai, Barbeau managed to locate and visit the village. “Although I was unable to find any of my mother’s relatives, I decided to build a borehole as a remembrance to her.” She said that when she saw the river near the village, she recalled the stories that her mother had told her. “Seeing the river was important to me, as my mother used to tell me about bathing in it. "They also used it as a loo and for drinking water. They lived in trying times. I remember shedding tears and offering prayers, as I reflected on our conversations. That’s when I decided to build the borehole as a remembrance to her.” Since then, she has been trying to raise funds. In March last year, the octogenarian, her daughter, Claudette Pop, and grand-daughter, Falana de Villiers, spent a week in Tiruvannamalai, a three-hour drive from Chennai. For De Villiers and her aunt, it was a humbling experience. “We take so much for granted, while the villagers are not so privileged. Despite their circumstances, the children looked so happy and were respectful,” De Villiers said. Witnessing the hardships of rural living, especially children as young as four carrying heavy buckets laden with water, resulted in the women stepping into action - but there is still a journey ahead for them to raise the funds required. “We thought we had raised enough money to install a hand pump, so they could acquire water, but we learned that we needed to dig a bit deeper and install a borehole well instead. "Unfortunately, we did not have the funds to cover the costs and had to return to the drawing board,” De Villiers explained. A borehole well, she said, would cost in the region of R35 000 and, to date, Barbeau and her grand-daughter have raised R23 000. “We leave for India again in March and are determined to finance the borehole by then.” She added she would also rally support to help collect five-litre bottles of water for residents living in drought-stricken Cape Town. * For enquiries, call Charlene Somduth at 031 308 2418. POST