Durban - Growing up in Chatsworth, Shrey Viranna wanted to play soccer for Manchester United and become a test driver for Ferrari. Neither of those dreams materialised, which is probably a good thing because his life’s trajectory outside of the sporting arena has been nothing short of spectacular.
The former Discovery Vitality boss takes on his biggest challenge tomorrow, February 1 - as group chief executive officer of Life Healthcare. A medical doctor by training, Viranna, 42, takes charge of 64 hospitals in South Africa, including Life Entabeni and Chatsmed Garden in Durban, Fourways in Johannesburg and Vincent Pallotti in Cape Town. Life has 2700 specialists and approximately 20 000 nurses in SA, as well as an extensive footprint across India, Poland and the UK. “I’m excited and nervous at the same time,” Viranna told POST. “It’s an amazing opportunity with such a fantastic group and aligns with my professional purpose of making a difference in healthcare in South Africa and more broadly.” In his previous role as chief executive of Discovery Vitality, he said his team had embraced the purpose of making people healthier through a focus on wellness and health promotion. “Prior to that I worked for over a decade at a global consulting firm; during that time I focused on healthcare and other operations across numerous African countries.” The things he had learnt along the way? - Only do the right thing; always act with courage and integrity. - There is no substitute for hard work and a “can do” attitude. - Be caring and supportive of the people you work with; everyone is trying their best. - Never accept that something cannot be done, and always strive for excellence. Viranna, who lives with his family in Johannesburg, still regards Durban as “home”. His schooling - he attended Newhaven Secondary in Croftdene, Chatsworth - were his most formative years, he said. “You only appreciate this and the life shaping influence that some of your teachers had on you many years later. I actually find myself quoting lessons learnt from them that still guide me today.” Both from Gitanjali Primary in Silverglen and Newhaven, there were many teachers who, in hindsight, were great mentors: “To name a few, so you appreciate how they shaped my future - Mr SS Naidu, who encouraged me to be well rounded and balance class work with sport and other interests. "Mr L Pillay and Mr N Moodley who went above and beyond and were inspirational in their sense of care for us. Mr VA Moodley and Mr AN Naicker who taught me the importance of discipline and hard work. "Mr Ramguthy who forced me to concentrate by making me sit at his desk during the accounting lessons which triggered a love for finance and attention to commercial detail.” Tragically, Pillay was wounded and his wife Gona, a retired principal, stabbed to death at their home during a robbery in September. Viranna said he had also learnt to appreciate the few teachers, who in their criticism of him and belief that he would not amount to much, “taught me to step up and accept a challenge and prove people wrong”. His childhood, he said, was priceless. “You make your first set of friends for life in your childhood. They become family over the years and whether you see them often or after 20 years, there are bonds we formed and values we share from the community we grew up in that makes it special.” Chatsworth, and Newhaven, are also where he met his now wife, Pooven. “We’ve been together since and she knows me better than I know myself.” The couple have two sons, Thillan, 13 and Triaksh, 10. “Family is our absolute first priority so I consciously make the time to be very involved in their lives and this is personally tremendously important to me,” Viranna said. While he didn’t make the cut as a Ferrari racing driver, Viranna said as “a kid from Chatsworth”, cars were still in his blood. “I love modifying them and now restoring them also. Nothing clears my head like a long drive and good music. Fixing the cars with my sons is one of my favourite weekend activities.” And while he didn’t get that United call up, he’s always played a lot of sport. “Now I run regularly, usually at night after the kids have gone to bed. I go out for a quick 10km. When I can I take a bicycle out on the weekends.” He also enjoys baking, something he had done with his mom, growing up. In life and work, though, Viranna’s not sure if there is a recipe for success. “I tend to stay true to what motivates me and makes me happy even when it feels risky or inconvenient. My observation is that most of us know what we love doing and what makes us happy. "Too many of us don’t want to take the risks involved with following that path and often compromise on what feels safe and convenient. “My advice is actually quite simple. Be true to yourself about what you really want and have the courage to pursue it. Life is not just too short, it’s also messy and far from perfect so do the best you can and let go of the rest.” His message for those in school: “Work hard, then work harder. Your academic results aside, it’s where you will learn grit and commitment. "Also play team sports, you learn life lessons for working in corporates as much there, as in the classroom - how to win and how to lose and to depend on and help others.” Viranna is currently reading Essentialism: The Disciplined Pursuit of Less by Greg McKeown; Anthem by Ayn Rand and Chatsworth: The Making of a South African Township by Ashwin Desai. POST