Durban - They may be celebrating their “silver” anniversary today but Great South African Bake Off finalist Simmi Ramnarian and husband Peter believe they are still newly-weds. “We still go out on date nights once a week and take walks on the beach almost every Sunday. We are each other’s best friends,” said Simmi of Phoenix. “We have breakfast, lunch and supper together and are in each other’s faces all the time. We surprisingly don’t get annoyed with this. To be honest, we have become a more crazy and spontaneous couple,” added Simmi, who said they owned a car audio business. Simmi, 45, met Peter, 51, during a driving lesson. “Peter knew my driving instructor and while I was parked at the garage to have fuel filled, they spotted one another and began chatting,” said Simmi, who was patiently seated behind the steering wheel. Simmi and Peter were introduced but she did not think much about their brief encounter. “Shortly after we left the garage, the instructor asked for more of my personal details for their files, so I gave it to him. I was then surprised when Peter called and asked to go on a date.” Looking at her now husband of 25 years, Simmi said: “I was so angry and upset back then.” To this, Peter replied: “What else should I have done? I am a man and in that moment I just knew she was the one for me but she wouldn’t give in so easily.” Simmi made Peter wait two months before relenting. Then another date followed and another until he asked her parents if they would meet his folks. “It all went by so quickly and within two months, we were planning our wedding,” said Simmi. They wed on February 14, 1993, in a Hindu ceremony at the Arya Samaj Hall on Carlise Street in front of 500 guests. She wore a red and white chaniya choli and Peter, a red and white sherwani. “Valentine’s Day fell on a Sunday and it was auspicious for a Hindu couple to get married on a Sunday morning, so we thought why not.” The couple, who have two children, Sameer, 24, a salesman, and Kirti, 20, a beautician, said they intended on going out for a romantic dinner. Peter said their relationship was strengthened over time and they accepted one another - flaws and all. POST