Durban - The kingpin behind several Durban fine-dining restaurants of yesteryear and the man who lent his name to the famous Uncle Jack’s Inn in Clairwood has passed away. Jack Moodley died on Monday after a short illness at the ripe old age of 97. His daughter Madhurie Moodley said her father experienced difficulty in breathing on Friday evening and was admitted to hospital. He was born in the Inanda area and as a young man sailed the world while he worked as a waiter on luxury ocean liners. As his seven children grew up, he decided to give up being a seafarer to pursue a career in the restaurant business. Before long, Moodley, of Merebank, was a director of several leading food establishments in Durban, including the Delhi and Khyber restaurants in Grey Street, the Princess Restaurant in Prince Edward Street and the Paradise Restaurant at the Durban Ocean Terminal. “The Paradise was a fine-dining restaurant that raised the bar in terms of food and entertainment. It was here that the Sunday supper club event was first introduced,” said his son Raj Moodley. “The Paradise was also popular as a ballroom dance venue where many of the best musical bands performed. “This venue was also a trailblazer as it launched one of the first discotheques in Durban,” he said. Moodley also had business interests in the Gemini Cinema in Isipingo, Sol Namara Hotel in Silverglen and Golden Crust Bakery in Sirdar Road, Clairwood. However, it was the establishment of Uncle Jack’s Inn at 580 South Coast Road in 1962 that gave the genial and gregarious Moodley the greatest sense of satisfaction. Now known as Victoria Café, this restaurant and takeaway continues to operate at the same premises and is run by Raj. Moodley was a dapper dresser and, had a keen memory until the end and was a great raconteur. He served as a committee member of several religious and cultural organisations, including the Merebank Tamil School Society and the Parasakthi Temple. His funeral will take place at the weekend. POST