Durban - The historic ties between India and South Africa were further strengthened during a cultural dinner at the Durban City Hall on Friday to commemorate the 69th Republic Day of India. The Consul General of India in Durban, Dr Shashank Vikram, announced the launch of the South African Indian Dance Alliance, which has brought various dance and music schools in KZN under one banner. “It is my pleasure to announce that the South African Indian Dance Alliance has now been formed with the aim of bringing Indian dance to the forefront of the performing arts in South Africa and to create an awareness and appreciation for the Indian classical and contemporary art,” Vikram told guests that included the MEC for Human Settlements and Public Works, Ravi Pillay, and IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi. The annual celebration, which runs concurrently with India’s festivities, remembers one of the most important days in India’s history - when the country gained its independence from British rule. The evening commenced with the lighting of a lamp by Mahatma Gandhi’s granddaughter, Ela, and deputy mayor Fawzia Peer, before Vikram took to the stage to deliver the opening address. He highlighted the significance of the day, adding that Gandhi and South African freedom fighters had played a pivotal role in India’s constitution. Vikram said his resolve to eliminate poverty through inclusive development was a step in the right direction. “Tremendous work is being done to skill and employ the youth. About 65% of our population is below 35 years of age and are hungry for technology-enabled growth. We are therefore positioning India as a global manufacturing hub leveraging the energy of our youth.” He said India was among the fastest growing major economies and one of the largest manufacturing nations. “We have indeed made strides, especially in fields like IT (information technology), space technology, medicine and education.” He then touched on the strong links between India and South Africa and on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to SA in July 2016 where he announced that his government would assist in the establishment of the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Computer Education and Information Technology at the Phoenix Settlement in Inanda. Efforts also led to the completion of a kitchen and dining hall facility at the Ramakrishna Abalindi Home in KwaMashu and the inauguration of the local Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Museum. “May these projects serve as a constant reminder of life and times of Gandhi in Durban.” Pillay, who also addressed guests, said: “Through South Africans of Indian origin, we remain tied at the hip with India.” A cultural programme encompassing several traditional dance performances drew the night to a close. POST