Durban - A South Durban father is livid after he returned home on Friday afternoon to find his disabled teenage daughter had allegedly been raped, while her caregiver was asleep on the couch. The 14-year-old girl claims she was taken into a bedroom and raped by a known man, who had entered their property under the pretence of cutting grass. Her father, who cannot be named to protect his minor daughter, said when he got home from work at around 6pm, he found his child "red-faced" and crying while sitting on their lounge floor. “I called out to her and was met with my weeping child. I had asked her if she was still feeling ill as she had a fever the night before. But the first thing she said was ‘daddy I was raped’. "I went into shock. All I could ask was who had done this to her. And then she told me. “I ran outside and tried to apprehend this man, who was still in the yard, but he fought me and ran into an informal settlement. “I began screaming for the neighbours to help and within minutes, members from the Community Policing Forum and police arrived. About 18 to 20 of them went in search of him.” The father said he had asked the caregiver, who had started work at the home three days before, what had happened but she appeared stunned. “From day one I told her to keep the front door gate and windows closed as we live in an area that is not safe.” The girl said she had been in the kitchen when the man entered their unlocked home and grabbed her. The caregiver had allegedly not heard her cries for help as she was carried into the bedroom and the door was locked behind them. “He tried to kiss me and I continued to scream until he eventually unlocked the door and ran out. I woke the caregiver and told her what had happened and she just laughed,” said the teen. “She went outside and I could hear her speaking to him in (isi)Zulu. I also heard her say she was tired and was going back to sleep,” the girl alleged. The traumatised teenager alleged the man re-entered the house a short while later, while the caregiver fell asleep again. The girl declined to explain what had happened thereafter. She was later taken to a local hospital for the necessary tests to be done and medication given. The father added: “Right now we will let the police do their investigations. It is difficult seeing my child in pain. I can see it in her eyes even though she is not speaking about what she is feeling. We hope to get counselling during this difficult time.” Psychologist Dr Malthi Maharaj said the child would need support and encouragement as rape would emotionally and physically affect her. “Seeking help and emotional support from a trained professional is also the best way to ensure long-term healing. Working through the pain sooner rather than later can help reduce symptoms like nightmares and flashbacks,” said Maharaj. Police spokesperson, Captain Nqobile Gwala, said a case of rape was being investigated. POST