A career that started in the CBD of 85 Field Street, Durban, in 1976, with typewriters and tippex, telex and telegraphs and art department and speculative layouts manually designed, studios and dark rooms, Lampson shoots to transmit copy to the works department, lithography and hot metal plates to prepare the pages for printing and plenty of men in ink-stained overalls in the machine room. An era where fashion had style and elegance, where manners and respect were key, but also where smoking was legal and everything was manual, including feet that pounded the pavements to do business - be it for a story or an advert. A career that saw the Daily News building, with just two other titles in its stable (the giant Sunday Tribune and the newly acquired Post Natal), become Natal Newspapers and then Independent Newspapers. A career that also saw the acquisition of The Natal Mercury from the Robinson’s household and how all our title brands together, “owned” the city with loyal readers and advertisers, where print ruled the media industry and telephones rang off the hook, where over 1 500 staff members wore out the smoke filled corridors from 85 Field to a plush, open plan set-up at 18 Osborne Street in 1990. A career that also witnessed the birth of our prized vernacular Isolezwe titles. A career that injected ink into my veins, thus “forcing me take ownership” of everything I chose to tackle because I just loved what I did. The list is endless but I will finally add, a career that also saw a single, young, skinny, naïve lady develop into a wife, a mother and now a grandmother twice over. So, after 45 years of working life - 41 years at Independent -  another chapter begins where I get to enjoy my personal journey into my twilight years and where I get to do uninterrupted life with my loved ones, God willing! Understandably so, I feel exhilarated and daunted at the same time because it’s going to be a huge adjustment. I must say this industry enriched me with knowledge, strength and wisdom and I am thankful for having had the opportunity to work and interact with so many seasoned journalists, senior executives, commercial heads and creative people, present company included. I could have spread my wings and flown out but this company and advertising became my passion.  I couldn’t trade it for anything else. The intense pressure, the adrenalin, the creative ideas, the challenges, the successes and the relationships we built with our peers, colleagues and clients were prized factors that didn’t allow any two days to be the same. Did I miss out on mentioning some good “jawls/jolls”? Yes, there were plenty of those, too. It’s now time for me to focus on family, to solidly connect with my nearest and dearest, to enjoy much deserved leisure and to get involved with activities that would keep my brain alive (I first need to empty it out because it’s pretty cluttered right now). I thank you for your love and support over the years and even if we crossed swords, please know that it was for the sake of business and never personal, so please forgive me if I have ever offended you in any way. I trust we can continue to say hello. Take care and God bless!. POST