The charming 27-year-old, of Sea Cow Lake, who had been visiting a cousin in Clare Estate, was left breathless when he caught a glimpse of 16-year-old Sabitha Devi talking to her friends. Without saying a word, the pair locked eyes and a blushing Sabitha Devi, who lived on the same property as his cousin, bolted inside her house. “All I could do during my visit, was think about her until her uncle and I got chatting. I enquired about her and mentioned that I was interested in her. His response was ‘okay’. “He then offered to speak to Sabitha Devi’s father on my behalf but I declined. I wanted to speak to him myself,” said Ramsoonder, now 80. He instantly took a liking to his future bride’s dad. Recalling her encounter with Ramsoonder, Sabitha Devi, now 66, said: “He was very handsome and dressed so well. He still dresses well.” A week later, Ramsoonder, a laboratory technician at a chemical company, arranged for his parents to meet her family. “They were such lovely people and prepared a feast for us. We sat and chatted and it was clear that Sabitha and I could take our relationship forward.” He visited her family home every chance he got and within six months they were engaged. “My father-in-law trusted and respected me, and only asked that I not let him down.” After three years of courting, the young couple decided it was time to settle down and tied the knot in a Hindu ceremony on December 31, 1967, at her home in Morewood Road, Clare Estate, in front of 400 guests. “We chose that date because we wanted to ring in the new year together,” said Sabitha Devi. A year later, their daughter Nalini was born followed by sons Ravin and Avesh. After a decade living at Sea Cow Lake, the family moved to Parlock. Everything was falling into place with Ramsoonder being promoted to production manager and their second daughter, Venisha, being born. In 1994, Ramsoonder retired and since then the couple have holidayed in India four times. They left for Sri Lanka yesterday and are expected to arrive and celebrate Valentine’s Day in the island nation today. Asked about the secret to their marriage, Ramsoonder said they refused to go to bed angry, while Sabitha Devi added: “We wake up, chat and spend time together, like best friends. We also travel, go to the movies and it’s a bonus that Ivy is a big joker. He always makes me laugh and takes the best care of me.” POST