Durban - Women are now eligible to serve in India’s territorial army. The Delhi High Court said this week that any provision of any Act that bars or discriminates against women in the recruitment process transgresses the fundamental rights of equality provided under the constitution. A division bench of Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar gave the go-ahead to recruitment of women in the territorial army (TA), the second line of defence after the regular army, saying the restriction is “neither reasonable nor rational”. “It is declared that any ‘person’ mentioned in section 6 of the Territorial Army Act, 1948 includes both males as well as females,” said the court, adding that government has “failed to show any decision of policy, let alone binding policy, enabling them to deny opportunity to the women to serve in all units of the TA”. “No rationale has been offered to justify or sustain the action of the respondents (government) enforcing a bar against recruitment of women through their advertisements,” said the order. Quashing adverts issued in 2015 and 2016 inviting application from men only for joining the territorial army, the bench said: “The impugned advertisements to the extent they exclude women from appointment to the territorial army and the claimed policy in this regard are ultra vires of articles 14, 15, 16 and 19(1)(g) of the constitution of India and are hereby quashed.” It added that the adverts imposed a blanket bar on the appointment of women to both departmental and non-departmental battalions of the territorial army “without any credible, reasonable or compelling justification for imposing such restrictions”. The territorial army comprises volunteers who get military training in order to be mobilised for the country’s defence in case of an emergency. It is part of the regular Indian army and its present declared role is to relieve the regular army from static duties and assist the civil administration in dealing with natural calamities, and the maintenance of essential services in situations where the lives of communities are affected or the security of the country is threatened, as well as to provide units for the regular army. The court’s order was the result of a public interest case filed by Kush Kalra, who alleged institutionalised discrimination against women for not being recruited in the territorial army. Kalra had contended that the government had a duty to ensure there was no discrimination practised by anyone in the country and non-recruitment of female candidates, who were gainfully employed, was against the spirit of the constitution. The bench, in its order, also stated that no empirical or statistical data had been produced by the government to justify such a policy prohibiting the recruitment of women to the army. POST