Durban - Bringing Indian music to global fame, Arijit Singh, the small town boy who made it big, is one of Bollywood’s leading playback singers and is set to woo audiences in Durban and Pretoria this week. He will perform his biggest chart-toppers, fan favourites and classics with fans at the ICC in Durban on Saturday at 8pm and the following day at the Sun Arena Time Square, in Menlyn, Pretoria, at 6pm. The concerts are courtesy of Blu Blood and Showtime Promotions. “Arijit is one of the most versatile and successful singers of Indian music and cinema and we are so proud to be able to bring him back to South Africa. In fact, it was Blu Blood that brought out Arijit for his first international show. "This is going to be the biggest Bollywood musical extravaganza to hit African soil,” said Blu Blood’s managing director, Osman Osman. Veesham Maharaj, of Showtime Promotions, added: “Bollywood lovers have been patiently waiting for Arijit’s return to South Africa and we are excited to be able to add Durban to the tour this time. This is our biggest concert to date.” Arijit, a singer, musician, live performer, composer, producer, recordist and music programmer has performed over 150 songs and won more than 50 awards. His music career began when he participated in the reality show Fame Gurukal in 2005. Although he only made it to sixth position, filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali recognised his talent and brought him on to sing Yun Shabnami for an upcoming film. The song was, however, never released. He was signed for another album and that too was not released. But this did not stop Arijit from pursuing his dream. He participated in another reality show, 10 Ke 10 Le Gaye Dil, which he won and invested the prize money in building a recording studio, where he composed music for adverts, and news and music channels. Arijit spent the early part of his musical career as a producer and his big break arrived in 2010-2011, when he started working on films. His debut as a singer in the film industry was with the song Neeve Na Neeve Na for the movie Kedi and in 2011, he made his Bollywood music debut with the Mithoon-composition Phir Mohabbat for Murder 2. He also lent his vocals for Vishal-Shekhar’s composition Duaa in Shanghai. The song garnered him the Mirchi Music Award for Upcoming Male Playback Singer. His breakthrough came in 2013 as lead and key vocalist in Aashiqui 2 where his song Tum Hi Ho, which notched him several awards and nominations, including the Filmfare Award for Best Male Playback Singer. In 2015, he made his Tamil debut with Neeye Vaazhkai Enbena for the movie Pugazh.
 
Arijit has also “lent” his voice for the likes of megastar Shah Rukh Khan. Tickets can be purchased at Computicket. Arijit Singh is set to rock Durban and Pretoria this weekend. POST