Durban - A Chatsworth father’s plea for his children to be enrolled at school after they were turned away for allegedly being dirty and poor, has garnered widespread response from POST readers. More than 100 residents, community activists and non-profit organisations have reached out to the Welbedacht family to offer assistance after their predicament also went viral on social media. Read: ‘Because we are poor, we are being turned away’ Last week, POST reported that the man’s two children, a 10-year-old daughter and an 8-year-old son, were denied placement at schools due to their financial status, living conditions and for being troublemakers. The father, who cannot be named to protect the identities of his minor children, said he was overwhelmed by the support. “There are still people with good hearts around. My every day prayer is to give my children the education they need for them to have a better future.” For Durban attorney Azgar Ally Khan, every child deserves access to education, irrespective of their parents’ plight. “When I read the article, I contacted my business associates and friends to see if we could assist and they all jumped on the bandwagon. Within a day, a placement at a primary school in Chatsworth was secured by my business associate, Shaariq Ansari. "He approached the school’s governing body chairperson, who conferred with the principal and places were secured. We have also secured payment for the children’s school fees for the year.” The school SGB confirmed the children were placed. Khan added their school uniforms, shoes, bags and stationery had been purchased. “If as adults we can assist in educating the current generation, in time we will build a stronger nation free of poverty.” Members of the "brotherhood" group, the Tactical Shooting Team (TST), have also banded to assist the family. “We have had offers from people, who wish to pay their school fees every year, purchase uniforms and stationery and we have started a food collection drive. We are also trying to find jobs for the parents. "Our goal is to give back to the community to the best of our ability and break this cycle of poverty. These are people that seem to have been forgotten but not by us,” said TST member Nishkar Heera. Denisha Govender, of Johannesburg, has also reached out to the family. “We were left heartbroken after reading of the pain these parents are feeling. We wanted to make our contribution and send the family a sum of coupons to purchase toiletries and food from a retail store.” After reading about the plight on our Facebook page, POST Newspaper, Darren Chetty wrote: “Break the cycle of poverty and allow these children an education to enable them to make something of their lives. Not everybody is as fortunate and yes, life is not fair but we (are) human and so are these beautiful little angels.” Dhashnee Arunachellam added: “Outrageous why are we allowing people to be treated like this? Principals turning poor kids away! You would think a principal’s passion would be developing children.” POST