Durban - For decades, the stage has been Pinky Mothie’s window on life. Now the silver screen is to be a window on hers. It’s been a life worthy of a Bollywood blockbuster for the stage and show legend. There’s the tragedy of dealing with the death of her mother when she was just 4, adapting to a life with a stepmother soon after, then being rejected by her father in her teens for marrying a man from a lower caste and being widowed at a young age with four children to care for. Through it all, the doyen of the entertainment industry has stuck by her motto: “Never give up.” At the age of 67, there is no stopping the feisty grandmother. She’s busy with the release of the movie and also a book based on her life and that of her late husband, well-known show promoter D Mothie. The book and movie are expected to be released by the end of the year. Mothie grew up in Pinetown. Her father, Gokul Rambharose, was a musician and lead singer at the Divine Life Society in Reservoir Hills and also worked in the corporate sector. Her mother, Dooknie, was a housewife. “We lived in a rural area. We were very poor, but despite these challenges we led a happy life,” she said. “I was the fourth child of my five siblings. Just after my mother gave birth to my youngest sister, Meela, she died.” Although only 4 years old at the time, Mothie said she remembered how her mother’s death left them shattered. “My father had to take on a dual role, being our mom as well. It was very hard for him as he also had to work. My elder brother, Danny, and sister, Shelia, who were merely teenagers, helped him to care for us.” Mothie fondly remembers how she would attend school with Shelia when there was no one to care for her. “My sister and my brother were my rock. I would attend school with Shelia and during her classes I would sleep on her lap.” When she was 7, her father remarried and he had three daughters with her stepmother, Dasoda Rambharose. Mothie attended Malvern Primary School, Pinetown Secondary and Durban Girls High School, where she took part in plays and contests. “From singing, dancing and acting, there was something about the entertainment industry that gave me fulfilment and peace.” As a teenager she joined the group Soorsathie and the Nightingales as their singer. “I loved every minute on stage. It was through the entertainment industry I met and fell in love with Mr Mothie. “I was 16 at the time and he was 19. He was heavily involved in the promotion of the arts and creating a platform for local musicians to showcase their talent, especially during apartheid.” But their love story was almost cut short because her father did not approve of her relationship, let alone her marrying him. “It was something straight out of a Bollywood movie,” laughed Mothie. “Mr Mothie belonged to a lower caste and because of this and the fact that my father wanted me to be a doctor, he disapproved. I remember him telling me to take my belongings and leave our home.” Always one to follow her heart, Mothie pursued her relationship and in the same year married her true love. “My father refused to accept the relationship. He did not even want to attend our wedding, but thankfully my siblings stepped in and managed to change his mind.” The couple moved to Shallcross, where they shared a home with her husband’s six brothers and their wives. Their children are Veena Rampatha, 47, an administrator, Leena Tickley, 45, who is a financial manager in Dubai, Sarah Mahabir, 38, a businesswoman and son Rajiv Mothie, 32, who runs their business, Big M Productions. With their family growing they moved to Havenside, Chatsworth, where Mothie ran a hair and beauty salon. “Mr Mothie and I also ran numerous shows at the Durban City Hall including the famous sari queen and band contests. He also fought with the then apartheid government to allow artists from India to come to South Africa to host shows and to teach aspiring musicians.” Mothie said that at a time when segregation was rife, they secretly brought Indians, whites, blacks and coloured people together to stage various productions. But yet again life dealt her another blow. At the age of 37 and with four young children, she was widowed when her husband died from lung failure. “I felt my entire world come crashing down on me. I was left alone to care for my children, put them through university and get them married. “Again, I could not give up.” While running her salon, Mothie put her heart and soul into show promotions and created Big M Productions. “I did not want to see my husband’s legacy and vision go unfilled.” Mothie and Rajiv run the production from her three-bedroom house in Avondale. Her home is equipped with a dance studio where the glitz and glamour of her famous Afro-fusion shows are born. She also runs the Youth and Film Development Project, helping develop South African artists from all genres, the South African Star Academy, an eventing company, and she is the chairperson of the Women’s Cultural Organisation. Her organisations focus on creating a platform for youth to make their mark in the entertainment industry. When she is not busy, Mothie enjoys reading, doing yoga, cooking and a bit of gardening. She is also spiritual and finds solace and peace in prayer. The movie on her life, Memoir of Pinky Mothie, is being directed by Amit Chheda and filmed by Bibhuti Biswal. The book by the same name was written by veteran journalist Farook Khan. “The movie is dedicated to my husband as it was his dream for us to make a movie. It depicts our story and fight to have international artists performing in South Africa during apartheid,” said Mothie. “And what is more special is that Rajiv was given the opportunity to play the role of his father.” POST