Durban - Shaun “Rooster” Pillay, who slapped and throttled the married woman he claimed he loved, leaving her dead, was sentenced to an effective 10 years in prison yesterday. The 40-year-old father-of-five had earlier been found guilty of culpable homicide by the Durban Magistrate’s Court. When he realised the day after the incident that Vijayalakshmi “Veronica” Moodley, 45, was dead, he stuffed her naked body in a disused car parked at the back of her Shallcross home. He had attacked her after she had scolded him for watching porn on her cellphone. Moodley’s estranged husband Ricky, who had suffered a stroke in 2005 and used a wheelchair, was elsewhere in the house when the incident occurred. Pillay, who was initially hired as a caregiver for Ricky before falling for his wife, looked unfazed by his sentence. Moodley’s badly decomposed body was found in the back seat of the car in January last year. She died a few days earlier in December 2016. Last month, Pillay was found guilty of culpable homicide, and not the initial charge of murder. Magistrate B Mbulawa had said it was not Pillay’s intention to kill Moodley; rather, it was through his negligence that she died because he failed to help her as she lay on the floor moaning and gasping. He had earlier told the court that his life had come to a standstill after her death. “Our relationship was like a ‘husband and wife’ kind. Every day I think about her. She is in my thoughts all the time,” he said. “To her family, sorry from the bottom of my heart. I never meant for things to happen this way. Wish one day you guys can forgive,” said Pillay. Moodley’s elder sister, Yoganayagi “Leeanne” Maharaj, from Gauteng, told the court her sister’s death had left the family devastated. “Our lives have been turned upside down. We are struggling to deal with her death. I still have nightmares, even now. My sister was my life, my best friend, like my mother, a mother to my kids. All I pray for is justice,” cried Maharaj. Moodley’s sister-in-law Gwen Moodley told the court that Ricky’s health had since deteriorated and he was hospitalised on three occasions. Passing sentence, the magistrate said Moodley had died in a cruel manner. She sentenced Pillay to seven years for culpable homicide and three years for theft of cash and a car, which will run concurrently with two years for defeating the administration of justice. POST