Durban - Durban film-maker Jessica Singh has won R50 000 for her short film, Epic Encounters. Singh, who owns a film and television production company, was one of four to win the production grant in the 2018 Nature Environment and Wildlife Film-makers NEW Pitch short documentary competition. The competition was part of the NEWF Congress that took place recently at the Durban Botanic Gardens as part of a city-wide focus on film. Singh’s pitch was for a short wildlife documentary titled Epic Encounters that looked at saving Africa’s deadliest snakes. It follows the journey of Jason Arnold, a well-known snake rescuer in Durban. She said: “We give audiences a glimpse into Jason’s early life by revisiting his teenage years in the opening scenes when his passion for snakes began. “We then shift to present day and Jason will walk audiences through his most epic encounters with snakes he has rescued.” Singh said a key point in the film was the rescue of “a gorgeous 3.1m female black mamba” he named Marianne: “He rescued her from Mariannhill before she could be killed by the community.” She said she wanted the documentary to be a visual piece of entertainment with an underlying educational aspect. “We wanted to educate people about the important role snakes play as part of the ecosystem and how people can help to preserve these stunning creatures by understanding them better. “If snakes are better understood, there will be fewer snake fatalities each time someone sees one and kills it, instead of identifying whether it is venomous or non-venomous, then calling a professional snake rescuer to safely relocate it.” She said one of the challenges and joys of making a wildlife documentary was you never knew when something dramatic would happen. “A regular TV show or a regular feature film has actors playing roles which are scripted and carefully directed. “When shooting a wildlife documentary, the director cannot direct his or her subjects because the subjects are non-human, so the challenge is to just keep the camera rolling until something epic happens. “The joys of discovery and surprise are a big part of documentaries, and when that one special moment is captured on camera, it can become the highlight and climax of the film. Making a wildlife documentary can be the most challenging, yet most rewarding feat for a film-maker.” Singh said she was excited to be a NEWF finalist because wildlife, nature and the environment were subjects she felt closely connected to. “I completed a wildlife filmmaking course through the Wildlife Film Academy (WFA) in Cape Town and as part of our course, we stayed deep in the concession of the Kruger National Park. “We had limited water, no electricity and stayed in tents. We went out on daily early morning and night drives to capture wildlife footage for our graduation films, and my experiences there remain some of the highlights of my life.” Singh said she had big plans for her future. “I have a reality TV show sitting with a national public broadcaster. I pitched it as a 2019 production, so we are seeking out and securing sponsors, and we are hopeful that this first-of-its-kind television production will be seen by South Africans next year. "I feel passionate about growing the local film and TV industry in KZN, so I am currently creating my own online TV course for beginners and intermediates, which I hope to launch soon.” Singh is also a part-time online English teacher and is studying towards her LLB law degree. She hopes to specialise in animal law. She is an animal rights activist and wants to impart knowledge about nature, the environment and animal rights to others because “one is never too young or too old to learn something new”. The other winners were: Londiwe Shange for Toxic Relations, Emily Cross for Part of the Pack and Tessa Barlin for Becoming One. All movies are due for release next year. POST