Durban - Their aim is to inspire and motivate the youth through various programmes, and now you can help the Nelson Mandela Community Youth Centre achieve that. The centre, launched in 2003 by the former president, as a safe and enabling environment for local youth after 13 teenagers died in a nightclub during a stampede three years earlier, has since been providing programmes free of charge to the community. This includes sport such as table tennis, volleyball and chess, workshops such as drug support groups for parents, career symposiums and public talks on various topics from politics, to art and education. Now, the centre has an ambitious plan to build an IT hub that will take its offerings to a whole new level. “We hope to achieve more and empower the youth with the IT centre. We want to have a media centre, offer an online reference library, basic programming, offer workshops on how to use a computer, and most importantly, offer a computer-based learning environment,” said Vanashrie Gounder, chairperson of the Nelson Mandela Chatsworth Youth Centre trust. POST has kick-started the drive with a donation of R24 000, raised from our recent charity auction at the POST Golf Day. Chipping in is the Wild Coast Sun and Sanlam. An elated Gounder said the donation was the important first step in getting their dreams realised. “Our goal is to take the youth and community members who are exposed to social ills including drug abuse, physical and sexual abuse and prostitution, that plague our community, into a learning environment,” she said. “We want to empower them to better their own lives and the community at large.” On the drawing board are plans for an IT hub, computer training centre and an internet café, all to be housed within the existing building. The internet café will be used for recreational and educational purposes such as researching school projects, extracurricular activities, and the children will eventually learn to effortlessly use a computer and surf the web. “The idea will be to integrate the use of the computer into their lives in a positive and useful manner,” the centre said in its IT proposal. “When students use the internet to search for data, they learn to source various types of information, apply their minds in trying to figure out what is relevant and what is not, and use their creativity in communicating their findings through their reports or PowerPoint presentations. “With the right use of technology, they learn to apply their mind to what they are doing and learn by doing.” As well, since a group of youngsters have to share a computer, they are also encouraged to work in teams and collaborate with each other. “This is significant behaviour change noticed by teachers across the world. Under the right guidance, students can learn to apply the knowledge to enhance information sourcing, information analysis, problem solving, decision making, collaborative work and communication.” The proposal continues: “As a result of our technologically savvy era, emphasis has been placed on children having acquired advanced technological knowledge which is not sometimes covered by our school curriculum. The media centre will assist children to acquire advanced skills. "It will provide children with the ability to utilise the computer for more interesting projects such as making movies, editing music and photographs, as well as creating newsletters. "The Nelson Mandela Chatsworth Youth Centre currently has a photography club, and the members of this club are ideal candidates for using the media centre. “The primary goal is to develop children that have an affinity to arts, and this programme would be perfect to introduce these children to the various ways in which technology can be used in an artistic manner such as drawing, creating and editing music, and photography.” Finally, in keeping with the initiative of empowering the youth, creating technological awareness and increasing the youth’s overall technological skills, this programme will teach children the basics of programming. The intended users of the IT centre will primarily be the youth of Chatsworth and surrounding areas, and also any disadvantaged members of the community. The wish list, to get the IT hub set up, includes 40 laptop computers (at a cost of R200 000), furniture (R150 000), as well as painting, internet access, air conditioning and security. POST editor Krisendra Bisetty is appealing to individuals and corporates to help realise the dream. “We all know how much our beloved Madiba cared for our youth. Now, let’s join hands and do something about it.” If you can help, please contact us at post@inl.co.za. POST