Durban - He committed a “callous and cruel” murder of an innocent father, robbing him of his faulty car, old Nokia cellphone and R100 in cash. For these actions he was sent to prison for life. But the public may never get to know who this ruthless killer is, even if he were one day to be released on parole and mingle freely with society. In a shock ruling in the Durban High Court on Monday, a judge has ordered that the identity of the 35-year-old Indian man from Sunny Park, KwaDukuza (Stanger) be protected so that his two young daughters be spared the knowledge of their dad’s horror deeds and possible victimisation. The court earlier found he had not shown any remorse and that despite five previous convictions for crimes that include rape, housebreaking, assault, theft and fraud, he showed little sign of rehabilitation. His accomplice, who does not have children, can be named. He is Nhlakanipho “Mazambane” Phoswa, 20, from Thafeni, Groutville, who was sentenced to 15 years imprisonment for murder and 10 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances. The sentences are to run concurrently. The family of the victim, KwaDukuza metered taxi driver Jayaram Venketesu Pillay, 53, are outraged while legal experts are confounded by the order which many have not heard of before. “What about my children? What about their protection? "They have to grow up without a father because of this man. Victims should be protected, not criminals,” Pillay’s wife, Mala, told POST. “He has had the last laugh,” she said. She vowed never to forgive her husband’s two killers, saying she hoped they would rot in jail. The father of two was stabbed to death and robbed of his vehicle on November 16, 2016. His decomposed body was found four days later, dumped in a sugar-cane field in Nonoti, north of Durban. Evidence was that the two killers had approached Pillay for a lift but led him to the field. Phoswa had strangled Pillay with the seatbelt before accused X stabbed him in the chest. His 1992 Toyota Corolla, cellphone and cash were taken. Police traced his car to a mechanic’s garage in Groutville. Mala, 47, cried while on the witness stand as she spoke of the loving husband and father everyone knew Pillay to be. “He was loved by his family and his community. “What happened to him has affected us badly. My son’s grades have dropped in school, my daughter remains devastated and I’m constantly losing my memory,” Mala told the court. “Financially, I also suffer because I have to support my children and my husband’s two sisters.” Turning to Phoswa, who dropped out of school after Grade 5, Pillay said a formal education should not help one determine “what’s right from wrong”. “If someone told you to strangle your brother or sister, would you do it?” she asked him. Pillay then turned to accused X, stating: “I know you knew my husband. How could you even think of doing something like this? "Even if you needed the money, you could have asked us. Why did you do it? For a car that wasn’t even working properly? We looked for my husband for four days.” She was happy at the stiff sentences. “Justice was served for my husband. I can now move on with my life, knowing that the men who killed him are paying for what they did.” Delivering sentence, Judge Graham Lopes found Phoswa to be remorseful and took into account that he was a first-time offender and a teen at the time of the offence. Accused X, however, showed no remorse and the minimum sentence prescribed by law should not be deviated from, he said. The court, however, ruled that his name not be disclosed by the media to protect his daughters, aged 4 and 5, who might be taunted for having a murderer as a father. Asked to comment on this, a senior Durban magistrate said it was “strange” as criminals cannot “use” their children to be protected. “The only time a person will not be named is if the case involved the children themselves, that is, a crime was committed against them,” the magistrate said. “For example, if a father is found guilty of raping his minor daughter, then no parties will be named to protect the identity of the daughter. “In this particular case the accused’s children are not connected to this case whatsoever. “And if every criminal uses their children as an excuse, then no criminals would be named, because a majority of criminals have minor children and it serves absolutely no purpose.” The magistrate added: “If you want to think about children, think about the children of the victim. “How are they feeling? Their father was taken away in a brutal manner and his death has been made public. They also have to face the public.” Another judge also found the decision unusual. “I haven’t heard of an order of this nature before.” One of the purposes of sentencing, the judge explained, was not only to make the public aware that a suitable punishment had been meted out, but that it served as a deterrent for would-be criminals. A Durban attorney said accused X was found guilty of committing a “heinous, premeditated crime” and given life imprisonment, the highest sanction imposed by the courts. “And then the court shrouds his identity. What about the interests of the public and the interests of the child? The child has a direct interest to know that the father is a murderer. Why lie to the child? Did he not think about his child when he was committing the crime?” A Durban prosecutor, however, believes there’s merit in not naming him. “The sins of a father should not be visited upon his minor children. They should not be judged by his evil conduct,” he said. He remembered a recent case where the victims complained that they were doing poorly at school because other children kept taunting them. POST