Durban - The National Council of SPCAs has taken ownership of 69 horses, following months of back and forth deliberations regarding the state of care that the animals were receiving at the South African Army base in Potchefstroom The NSPCA's executive director, Marcelle Meredith, said they had raised the alarm over the horses' health months ago. "In April 2018, horses were found to be dying of starvation while in the care of the South African Army Special Infantry Capability (SAASIC) Unit at the Potchefstroom Base of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF). The SAASIC Unit had failed to procure feed to ensure their upkeep.  The horses were therefore forced to eat soil and their own faeces and their condition had perilously deteriorated. Twenty-five horses had to be euthanased due to their condition," Meredith said. She said after ongoing communication, the horses were removed. Last week, the horses were relocated from the Potch base to a large farm in Gauteng. Meredith said the loading and transportation of the horses went seamlessly and the horses were offloaded into a beautiful and vast area that is completely different to the baron environment from where they have come. "The farm has an infinite amount of space for the horses to roam freely with natural grazing, stables and abundant enrichment; shaded with trees and wide open spaces for the horses to enjoy some sunshine, with water sources which provide a place for the horses to cool off and wallow in – it is an environment that offers the horses both physical and mental well-being," she said. Meredith added that it was an emotional experience watching the animals walking out of the truck and taking in their new environment. "The most humbling moment was when they allowed us to witness their delight by playing and splashing in water and rolling around in the grass, as if to acknowledge their freedom to be horses," she said. Meredith conveyed the organisation's gratitude to all those who assisted in the relocation of the horses. Daily News