Peer has reported the matter to the Speaker’s Office as the fallout over the recording continued, with the DA calling on the Speaker to investigate her for what it called a display of arrogance in contravention of the councillors’ code of conduct. The recording went viral on social media earlier this week, with some DA councillors sharing it and accusing Peer of treating Reservoir Hills resident Ron Naidoo with disdain and threatening her. In the clip Peer is heard arguing with Naidoo, who had written to the mayor complaining that Peer was not doing her job. “The ward councillor is supposed to help you. I am not there for service delivery. I have 115 wards to worry about” Peer says in the clip. The conversation gets heated, with Naidoo arguing that the DA councillor in her ward was not able to do his job because the ANC-led administration “cut him off at the knees”. Later in the audio clip Peer accused Naidoo of being rude in her e-mail. “Don’t pick me out, I am warning you... You are so rude to write to the mayor about me,” Peer says. This was in reference to an e-mail by Naidoo complaining about service delivery. Naidoo admitted that she had written the e-mail, saying all she wanted was service delivery in her area, where a squatter camp had mushroomed, leading to problems. In the e-mail sent to the mayor, Naidoo also slams Peer for a recent helicopter ride, saying she should rather focus on her duties. Peer took offence to this. Peer said the helicopter ride had been arranged by a private individual to help her explore bridges where stone throwing incidents had been reported. Peer, as chairperson of the city’s committee on security, led the municipality’s initiatives against such crime. “Her (Naidoo’s e-mail) comments were shockingly insensitive to the families of the kids who lost their lives during that tragic (rock-throwing) incident. Naidoo and those who publicised her comments owe an apology to the families and to the security folks who risk their lives daily to keep motorists safe,” Peer said. “Had she (Naidoo) engaged with her community leaders, she would have been well aware that my office has consistently prioritised, actioned out and resolved service delivery requests in Reservoir Hills and in her immediate vicinity.” Naidoo said she was not a member of any political party, merely a community activist. “This has nothing to do with the ANC or the DA. I thought by contacting people higher up, the municipality would act. She made this political as she kept on referring to the DA councillor,” Naidoo said. She said all she wanted was for Peer to apologise, not to her but to “the community because the residents pay her salary”. Peer said: “should any ward councillor fail in his duties it has to be reported. I urge Ron Naidoo to provide my office with all correspondence between her councillor and herself, regarding the concerns she’s raised.” The Mercury