The owner of Linda’s Hot Pot, which opened six months ago, shut her shop following alleged escalating racial encounters. Naidoo said her health had taken a knock due to the stress. The historic Durban club had allegedly tried, on multiple occasions, to evict Naidoo despite her having a one-year lease. POST had previously reported that a regular customer, Preggy Moodley claimed he had felt offended at the way he was treated recently. The 60-year-old had said he had gone to the club’s bar to return a glass when an elderly white man shouted: “The “f****** Indians are still here”. Earlier that day, a panic button was allegedly pressed when three black customers walked into the pub. According to Naidoo, it was not the first racial encounter since she began operating there and said the tension had become worse recently. “I decided the business wasn’t working. It went right down because my patrons were not happy. There is so much hostility when they come here and they are constantly being victimised, making it hard for them to want to return,” she said, adding the stress had made her sick. “My health is getting worse and the stress is the cause. You don’t want to be met with bitterness and aggression at work. I don’t want to work in an atmosphere like that anymore.” She said since her story was published, the club had tried to make her working situation worse. “We used to get change from the bar but a few weeks ago we had to sign an agreement saying we are not allowed to do so. Then when my waitresses ordered drinks from the bar for my patrons, they were charged double the price, claiming there were different prices for non-members.” She claimed club president Charmaine Wiblin had been trying to evict her from February but she had signed a one-year lease which expires in January 2019, so she refused to budge despite being given another eviction notice at the end of April. On June 1, Wiblin allegedly instructed Naidoo to pack her stuff and leave. “That’s when I started fighting it.” She obtained an interim court interdict against the club preventing it from evicting her. The club has since opposed the interdict and have applied for the eviction order. The matter is expected in court next month. However, Naidoo was yet to decide whether to follow through with the legal battle. Wiblin declined to comment. Bowls South Africa vice-president Charles Levy said he was not mandated to comment and referred the matter to their executive committee. POST