Durban - The 43-year-old mechanic who is accused of heinous sexual crimes against his 10-year-old stepdaughter allegedly threatened her after his arrest, the court heard. The man's bail application is currently underway at the Verulam Family Court. The man, who cannot be named to protect the identity of the child, is facing charges including 900 counts of rape, sexual grooming of a child, sexual assault, and exposure of pornography to a child. It is alleged the accused had been sexually abusing the girl since the death of her mother four years ago, and that he made the little girl watch porn and also of used sex toys including a vibrator on the child. Investigating officer, Warrant Officer Nevarge Lutchminarain, testified that the man “made threats to his daughter and the community” while being interviewed by the police. Lutchminarain said he had asked the 10-year-old victim what her stepfather meant in his threat. She apparently told him: “He (stepfather) said if you go to the police we both will go to jail. He told me he’ll put me in the same place where he put my mother.”       The investigating officer further alleged that the accused had threatened the head of Reaction Unit SA (RUSA) Prem Balram. The accused earlier told the court that RUSA security officials assaulted him upon his arrest. It also surfaced in court that the accused has previous convictions for assault and malicious damage to property, which occurred in 2005 and 2006. The complainants in these cases were his parents, the court heard. The accused’s ex-girlfriend had also successfully lodged a protection order against him. Lutchminarain said the police were opposed to bail and that accused is a flight risk. “He has not lived in one place for more than three months. It would be difficult to track him down,” he said. Lutchminarain also feared for the accused’s safety.   Lutchminarain: He should not be granted bail in order for his own safety. @SundayTribuneSA @IOL #VerulamRape #HouseOfHorrors pic.twitter.com/Fe2DosZYGY  — Karinda Jagmohan (@Karinda_J) July 3, 2018    The accused was arrested last month when police swooped in on his home after the little girl, who had allegedly been locked up in a small shack, escaped and allegedly raised the alarm with neighbours. Sunday Tribune