For us at POST, the quote that comes closest to capturing Madiba’s belief that sacrifice is a permanent feature of the human condition is one from his biography, Long Walk To Freedom. It reads: “I have walked that long road to freedom. I have tried not to falter; I have made missteps along the way. But I have discovered the secret that after climbing a great hill, one only finds that there are many more hills to climb, I have taken a moment here to rest, to steal a view of the glorious vista that surrounds me, to look back on the distance I have come. But I can rest only for a moment, for with freedom come responsibilities, and I dare not linger, for my long walk is not yet ended.” Such was the humility, the deep sense of commitment and resilience of this remarkable human being that five years after his sad passing, South Africans, and indeed many people throughout the world, continue to look up to him and his inspiring legacy for wisdom and guidance to face the difficult road ahead. It was for this very reason that the United Nations declared July 18 as Nelson Mandela International Day to recognise his values and dedication to the service of humanity and to acknowledge his contribution to the struggle for peace and democracy in our country and internationally. As we celebrate Nelson Mandela Day, we need to recognise the pivotal role he has played as an agent for transformation and reconciliation in our troubled land. His brand of selfless service to fellow South Africans - whatever their race, religion or political affiliation - has been exemplary and critical to the process of nation-building. Each one of us can play a role in recognising the role Mandela played in our country for 67 years, beginning in 1942 when he first started to campaign for the human rights of all people, by devoting 67 minutes to performing tasks that create meaningful change and make a difference to people’s lives. At a national and municipal level, South Africa will have far greater chance of success in achieving peace, stability and prosperity if our leaders can follow Mandela’s example of sacrifice and selfless service and give their undivided attention to serving the interests of the people they claim to represent. POST