In a bid to escape the flames on Thursday night, his daughter-in-law and grandchildren, the youngest being a toddler, had to jump through a window. Retired businessman Mohammed Essop Rawat, 70, also known as Bawa, lived with his son Nazir, his wife Shameema and three grandchildren in their two-story home. His son-in-law, Zain Bera, said they believed the fire started at around 11 pm. “About seven or eight years ago Bawa had a liver transplant and had become ill and was unable to walk. He was confined to his bed most of the time, and if he needed to get around, he did so using a wheelchair.” On Thursday night, Rawat’s care-giver had put him to bed at around 9 pm and left the home, Bera said. “Shameema and the children were asleep in another bedroom. Nazir was away in Polokwane due to work. “Shameema was awoken by the sound of glass breaking, and when she opened her eyes, she could only see and smell smoke.” Panicking, Shameema ran to the bathroom and wet three towels, which she wrapped around her children after waking them up. “Her youngest child, who is three-years-old, struggled to wake up due to taking in a bit of smoke. Shameema was unable to open Bawa’s room door.” Bera said Shameema started screaming for help. Neighbours heard the screams and managed to cut a burglar bar from one of the bedrooms and break a window for her and the children to escape. “Seconds after they escaped, the fire department arrived and managed to get to Bawa, but he died due to smoke inhalation. Shameema and the children were taken to hospital for treatment.” Bera said they believed the fire started after the heater exploded. “It extremely cold in Lenasia in winter and being elderly, he needed to keep warm. We still can’t believe it (the heater) started a fire.” Bera described Rawat as a community-driven person who helped anyone in need. “He was one of the pioneering residents of Lenasia and was well known through his business, Pen Electrical. His wife, Rokaya, died about three years ago due to cancer.” Bera said Rawat loved his family and had 12 grandchildren and one great-grandchild. The ordeal, he added, had left their family traumatised. “His death has taken a toll on Shameema and the children and they will be undergoing counseling. The house is badly damaged.” Lenasia police were investigating the incident. POST