“I managed to use the one man as a human shield so I would not get slashed or stabbed on my body. The only part of me that the hijacker could attack were the fingers on my left hand,” the 45-year-old man told POST. “He hacked at my hand three times, chopping off the top of my index finger. He also severely injured the rest of my fingers. The pain was excruciating.” He said he mustered all his strength to push the two attackers away and fled into nearby bush. The man has requested anonymity as he feared his attackers would return with another attack. Last Wednesday’s incident was his third violent brush with criminals. In 2010, his forearm was hacked with a panga during a business robbery, and a few years later his fingers were grazed by a bullet during a hijacking in Verulam. Last week, the hijackers forced him off his property in Northdale, he said. Recounting what had happened, after being discharged from hospital, the man said: “I was sitting in my garage listening to music at around 7.30pm when two men wearing balaclavas, gloves and armed with a panga approached. "They demanded I get into my vehicle (a Nissan Qashqai) with them and drive off.” While the businessman sat behind the steering wheel, one robber hopped into the front passenger seat and the other got in the back. “I was instructed to drive up Old Greytown Road where they were going to meet someone. I was told that if I tried to knock into anyone to alert them to the crime, they would kill me.” He said his daughter, who was concerned about his whereabouts, had called him. “When I attempted to get my cellphone, the hijacker pulled it away, slapped me on my face and threatened to stab me.” As they neared the top of the road, the hijacker seated next to the businessman opened the window and whistled three times. “And from the bush, I saw a flash of light. He then instructed me to stop the car. The area was dark and isolated, and I knew that in order to survive I had to escape. After I pulled over, I threw the car keys into the bush before trying to run off. But one of them grabbed me and threw me against the car.” A tussle ensued and the hijacker’s accomplice stormed towards the businessman with the panga, which was used to chop the tip of his index finger. “I was bleeding heavily but could not bear to look at my hand. I ran until I found a house and asked for help. The homeowner transported me to hospital. I’m eternally grateful to him.” An hour later, police informed him that his car was found burnt. The businessman said he had 
resorted to sleeping alone at night because he lashes out, thinking he is being attacked. “Although I am grateful to be alive, I don’t feel safe in South Africa any more. I fear for my safety and that of my family.” Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said charges of carjacking and assault with intent to 
cause grievous bodily harm were being investigated. No arrests have 
been made. POST