Durban - Two Verulam women are accused of swindling a local clothing manufacturer of R41million. Verusha Ramdeen, 35, and Zarina Amod, 58, were arrested last week and face charges of fraud and theft. It is alleged that Ramdeen worked for the company and made transfers from its business account into Amod’s personal one. The pair appeared at the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Friday for a formal bail application. While Ramdeen, a single woman living with her parents, said she could afford only R10 000 bail, Amod, a widow and mother of four who suffers with diabetes and chronic arthritis, was ready to pay R80 000 for bail. They intend on pleading not guilty. Private investigator Sean Peirce, from Coast to Coast Investigations, had investigated the money transactions on behalf of the company. “While the transfers were going under ‘purchases’ almost daily, the employer did not realise what was going on. The invoices would be for stock or to other companies they dealt with but the bank account number would be the same,” said Peirce. “These transfers, between R100000 and R400000, took place over five years. Out of the R41m transferred, a total of R35m had been withdrawn.” Granting bail, magistrate V Alamchand said neither woman was a flight risk. “Both accused have no pending or previous convictions. They are not involved in anything violent and are not a danger to a person or the public. They have strong family ties and accused number two also has health conditions.” Bail was granted at R40 000 for Ramdeen and R60 000 for Amod with conditions that both report to the Verulam police commissioner every Tuesday and not communicate with witnesses. The State argued that Amod had benefited more from the alleged transactions. According to a source, Amod, who sells traditional medicine, lives in a “mansion” in Verulam. Speaking generally on fraud, Peirce said that in his 31 years of experience, he had noticed this type of crime increasing. “I always say desperation and greed are the two biggest reasons why people commit fraud. “People are desperate to provide for their families and keep their kids in school so they resort to fraud. Then they become greedy because they seem to be getting away with it, but they don’t realise there will always be a paper trail for us to follow.” The women are expected to return to court in October. POST