As the world commemorated the 100th birth anniversary of the global icon on Wednesday, the Montford great-great-grandmother showed her reverence for the father of a democratic South Africa by garlanding a framed picture of Madiba. Kisten, who is looking forward to her own centenary next Thursday, might have crossed paths with Mandela in their younger days - although she did not know it. Her late husband Michael was a member of the Natal Indian Congress and she used to accompany him to underground political gatherings, she told POST. “He attended meetings all the time and sometimes I would accompany him. I did not know who Nelson Mandela was then; I’m sure my husband knew all about him and he would have probably met him. “I remember him telling me once to go with a group of ladies in the bus. A man took us to Red Square in town (now the Nichol Square parkade) and we sat there. It was a peaceful protest. It was a Sunday and we went back home the next day.” Growing up in Fynnland near the Bluff, Kisten hails from a wealthy fishing family. “I had six siblings, my father Vaillu was a fisherman and he had a fish business. I attended Clairwood Girl’s School but I cannot remember what year I completed my studies,” she said. “What I do remember is every day my parents would send lunch for us with servants. They would prepare a hot fish dish or a fresh sandwich and send with the servants who had to take a train just to get to us. "The teachers at school would always ask us for fish and once we cooked a fish curry for them. But we made it differently from how it’s made now; we would crouch down and stamp the chillies and other ingredients.” Aged 19 she got married and moved with her husband - and in-laws - to Cato Manor. “They were also a rich family who owned a farm and grew fresh produce. My father-in-law was so rich he would dig holes in the yard and bury his money,” she said. Kisten was a stay-at-home mother, looking after her seven children. One is now dead. Widowed in her late forties, she took up crocheting, knitting, smocking and sewing, while raising a large family. “Although my mother didn’t work, we had lots of family help,” her daughter, Vino Peters, 67, said. “I think she even collected a grant of some sort that helped. Shortly after my father’s death, we were affected by the Group Areas Act and given a home in Chatsworth.” Blessed with good health, Kisten does not take any medication and enjoys living life her way. “She enjoys reading, watching TV, walking about, spending time with family and loves helping people,” said Peters. “She eats and drinks whatever she wants, has no special diet and if anyone sits to clean vegetables she insists on helping even though we ask her not to.” Surrounded by her loved ones at the Montford home, Kisten, ironing out the creases of her handkerchief with her wrinkled hands, only has two words to say to her family as they tease her about turning 100 on July 26. “Oh no,” she says, blushing and laughing in disbelief. She’ll be celebrating her birthday with her children, 15 grandchildren, 16 great grandchildren and two great-great-grandchildren at St Thomas’ Church on July 28. POST