Opinion - The other day I met the son of a deceased colleague, and we reminisced about Youth Day and the sacrifices made by our youth for our freedom. He was not jubilant, to say the least. When I questioned him about the reason for his reticence, he said: “You adults through greed have betrayed the Struggle”. I was speechless. When I had a few seconds to pause and reflect on his statement, I realised he was dead right, especially when one considers the stories of greed and state capture in South Africa. What could I say? That, though, was not the end of our brief meeting. Being beside himself, he related to me another transgression against him and his brethren by a senior member of the Nosi family. He despondently told me about how his uncle had allegedly robbed them of their family inheritance. I was flabbergasted because I knew the family well. They were known for their integrity, pioneering commitment to community development and philanthropy. Is this not an age-old story of family greed? The issue of greed is a timely topic. It is increasingly common today to hear people talking about greed growing out of control as the fundamental cause of our world’s woes, economic and otherwise. We are suffering because some became too greedy - or so we are told. We continue to be troubled, moreover, that some make millions out of scams and rob others out of bonuses without any reason to assume that there is a connection between the sweat equity or bonus and the work they have done. Greed seems to have no limits or shame. It would seem that since time immemorial, humans have been living out an epic morality play. Humanity’s most celebrated spiritual leaders have taught us that society works best when we share, co-operate, and are honest in our dealings with one another. Yet, throughout history, this truth has been aggressively challenged by a faith called greed. It is an immoral ideology that has assumed the status of a modern religion. Its believers worship the gain of money at any cost and provide role models for immoral behaviour. They proclaim that everyone does best when we each seek to maximise our individual financial gain without regard to the consequences for others. The result is a public culture that proclaims greed is a virtue and sharing is a sin. The story of my friend’s son and one particular member of the Nosi family which is about to unfold, is the exemplification of this false virtue that the new religion of greed espouses. The Nosi family hail from KwaZulu-Natal. The patriarchy of the settler family was composed of three brothers, who through hard work and pioneer persistence established a small financial dynasty. In their wisdom, the brothers established the Nosi Family Trust to take care of their extended family’s financial needs after their demise. Beneficiaries In effect, it meant all the offspring of the Nosi family, especially the grandchildren, would become beneficiaries of the Nosi Family Trust. My friend’s son was one of those offspring, who was entitled to the bequest of this trust. Initially, the brothers were keepers of the trust, which they had wisely crafted. As the brothers began to pass on, the trust incorporated their sons into the trusteeship. All seemed to be going well in the administration of the family trust until one of the sons became a trustee. Indeed his appointment was a defining moment in the future of the Nosi Family Trust. For purposes of this fictitious story, let us call the villain of this piece Badmash. Throughout his early childhood, Badmash had shown signs of deprivation and literally “sponged” off the extended family. In later years, he became a sycophant and a man of straw. When he saw an opportunity, a morally-bankrupt Badmash usurped the powers of the Nosi Family Trust and became the de facto administrator. He was now answerable to no one, not even the beneficiaries, who also happened to be his next of kin. Greed had usurped his soul. His office became the collector of ill-gotten revenue from the trust. He was no longer a lick-spittle. He was a man of power - a self-appointed grandmaster of the Nosi Family dynasty. Badmash’s immediate family was now “wealthy”, and he was able to provide for them, especially his children. He sent them to some of the best and most expensive universities in South Africa. He bought his children cars and all sorts of luxuries at the expense of the beneficiaries of the Nosi Family Trust. It is in a way fortuitous that I wrote this piece on Father’s Day, an annual event during which we have become accustomed to hear and read endearing sentiments about the ones who against all odds and challenges, have been able to support their families and children with integrity. A series of questions arose as I reflected on Badmash as a father. In what conscious would his children appreciate the support provided by him, especially knowing that he had robbed the young of his kin to provide for them? Had Badmash taught his children it was “kosher” to steal from one’s family? Are his children aware that, sooner or later, when justice prevails, their father could be jailed for his misdeeds and they could be the ones to eventually bear the brunt of family shame? And so the litany of rhetorical questions goes on. The true danger of greed is that one becomes so obsessed with the object of his or her desire it becomes the only thing that is important. Someone possessed by greed develops tunnel vision, and in that tunnel, they can see only their own selfish desire. It can quickly emerge as a way to not relinquishing power or identity and consequently, they can walk all over the rights and needs of others, and to them it is no big thing. This is precisely what Badmash did to all those who mattered to the Nosi family. In the name of greed he simply and arrogantly rubbished their aspirations. I return to where we began. All I can offer my friend’s son is some advice. Despite the harm that Badmash has inflicted on him and his family, they should have patience and seek the path of righteousness. As Ben Nicholson once said: “The beast for me is greed. It always boils down to the same thing: the corruption of the soul.” And consequently, there is not much one can do for the redemption of Badmash’s soul. He alone needs to chart that path of redemption. Greed can make people do some strange things, which leads to ones like Badmash committing unlawful acts. They see an opportunity to make a lot of money for doing something they believe is harmless, albeit illegal. And then, they get caught and face a prison sentence. Finally, it is worth mentioning an old proverb that asserts: “We are born into this world with clenched fists, we leave it with fingers apart - preaching the lesson that you take nothing.” Greed is a bottomless pit which exhausts a person like Badmash in an endless effort to satisfy his need without ever reaching satisfaction. Will Badmash learn and redeem himself? You be the judge. This is, after all, an age-old story repeating itself incessantly. * Professor Dhiru Soni writes in his personal capacity. POST