The World Cup finals between Croatia and France will take place on Sunday. So here are the top 5 places you can watch the finals at 5pm in Durban: 1. Amsterdam Bar and Grill in Helen Joseph Road, Glenwood. This place has both and indoor and outdoor area. Manager Megan Dinsdale said they were hosting a bring and braai. "So people are encouraged to bring their own meat and our chefs will gladly braai them." Dinsdale said they were starting the buildup to the match from 12pm. "We generally have 3 flat screens inside the bar, but for the world cup finals we are going to have another flatscreen tv in the beer garden as well."She added that the ladies were in for a great cocktail specials and they were looking forward to creating a great vibe. 2. Keys on Florida Road and Keys on Davenport in Helen Joseph Road, Glenwood Both venues attract crowds of people during any big sport events. Owner Gary Clayton said they were excited about the World Cup finals and were offering their patrons live music before and after the World Cup screening. "In addition both branches will have happy hour from 5pm until 7pm." He said Keys on Florida Road, had 9 screens to broadcast the match, while Keys on Davenport had 7 screens.  "We generally attract a big crowd for these sort of events and we aim to create a great vibe." 3. House of Curries, Florida Road, Durban House of Curries manager Mia Reddy said with the crowds they have had for the semi finals, they are anticipating a large crowd for the finals on Sunday. "We have both an indoor and outdoor venue, and when it comes to sporting events we generally attract a large crowd." The place boasts 8 flat screen televisions. 4. Cornubia Mall Cornubia Mall fan park aims to cater for the entire family. Apart from live screenings of the World Cup finals, there will be face painting, football activations, celebrity signings, competitions and giveaways.There will also be a  host of live entertainment with each screening. Entrance is free. 5. Firkin Brewery at Pavilion Offers both outdoor and indoor seating. There are a number of flatscreens and a delicious menu. 