Durban - He is the face behind the mouth watering burgers and dishes at Pop up Society in Helen Joseph Road, Glenwood. And while Rev Batohi, initially wanted to explore a career in geology and metallurgical engineering, it was his mother's tantalising Indian dishes that inspired him to explore become a chef and restauranteur. After finishing school at Wingen Heights Secondary School in Shallcross, Durban, Batohi went off to work in London, never even imagining the journey of food he would eventually take. After spending 2 years abroad, Batohi returned back to KZN and decided to delve into pursue his career in hospitality and decided to enrol at Capsicum. "Capsicum was the total package and ticked all the boxes for me - international accreditation, price point, professionalism, location and flexibility.” He signed up for the International Certificate in Culinary Arts & Food Preparation course. "I could not have asked for a better institute. Operationally, we cooked in a nurturing space and theorised in an upmarket class room setting."
 
Once qualified, Batohi went on to work for a hospitality recruitment company, placing chefs in their dream jobs. “Working in recruitment, in a very corporate environment, laid the perfect foundation for owning a restaurant. It’s so much more than just cooking for people”, he says, “there’s so much admin involved”.
 
Then he made the decision to open his own establishment.
 
Batohi considers himself lucky to have his business partner and long-term friend, Mike Laing, to take care of a big portion of the number crunching and other behind the scenes operations, allowing Batohi to do what he does best - product development, designing menus, and cooking up a storm.
 
This chef also loves a good, practical recipe book, something that is well written and simple enough for the average person to follow, and his love of good food and good writing has prompted him to write his own cookbook - Always Trust a Skinny Chef - which he hopes to release in December 2018.
 
"The theme of this book is eating well," he says. "I grew up with this type of food, and I think I took for granted the quality of food we ate almost every night. We hardly ever ate out – there was no need”. POST