At that time I had little care about the happenings in the world, except for creating plasticine figures at school, attending dreaded thumb-card spelling classes by my mother and what seemed like other important things, including repeatedly listening to the same cassette tape with my two brothers. However, there is one name - no matter who you were, where you were from, or what stage of life you were at - that you could not escape hearing. That name was Mandela. I would hear my parents happily talk about President Nelson Mandela’s latest statements. I would see my teachers’ faces brighten up when they spoke to us about this liberation icon, Mandela. I would come across books, while searching for Dr Seuss at the library, about Mandela the human rights activist. Little did I know at that age of the impact Mandela would have and continue to have on my life. My first real experience with Mandela came in 2003. I was 11 years old and a Grade 5 pupil at Simla Primary School. Each school in our area was requested to select two pupils to represent their school at the opening of a facility that would become the hub of activity for the community of Chatsworth and surrounding areas. It also went on to provide a safe space for all youth - the Nelson Mandela Community Youth Centre. I was not the most academically-gifted pupil or the most talented at sport, but for some fateful reason I was selected. The date was October14, 2003, and we had arrived at the packed youth centre. There had been much hype of the programmes that would be offered and I was eager to be part of the event. We were given our seats and unfortunately I was placed the furthest away from the stage on which Mandela would be addressing the crowd. Pressed up against the steel fence that demarcates the end of the youth centre’s premises, I saw Mandela walk on to the stage. It was a surreal moment. He smiled, waved and delivered a powerful and passionate message. From that point on, I wanted to learn as much as I could about Mandela This year marks 100 years since the birth of Mandela. He was the voice and hope for all people, especially the poor, vulnerable and marginalised. There has been so much that we have learnt from his life, which was truly a life lived to make us better people. But there are five keys lessons that I hold dear, think about often and believe are relevant to our current circumstances.  * NEVER GIVE UP: You can rise above your circumstances. Do not feel you are constrained.Yes, you may lack opportunity but do not lose hope. Keep working and pushing forward and remember your cause. Mandela spent 27 years in prison for fighting for equality (longer than I have been alive). On his release he became the president of South Africa, and after his term of office he tirelessly continued to campaign for peace. He never gave up on the cause that mattered to him. * DEVELOP YOUR OWN OPINION: You are an individual, do not just follow what you are told. Always consider the facts, apply your mind and think. You do not have to conform to anybody’s opinion. If you believe your views are valid, stand up for them. Do not let your views be drowned or watered down by others. But you also do not need to criticise the opinions of others or hate them for their opinions. Try to look at situations from the point of view of others. This will broaden your perspective. To illustrate, we have the controversial example of Mandela and De Klerk, a liberation leader and an apartheid leader. Mandela knew the country would not move forward by removing De Klerk altogether, so he befriended him and placed him in a position where he would advance the cause. We can have different political affiliations and views but we can still be friends and work together. * RACE IS IRRELEVANT: Mandela said: “Let the strivings of us all prove Martin Luther King jr to have been correct, when he said that humanity can no longer be tragically bound to the starless midnight of racism and war. “Let the efforts of us all prove that he was not a mere dreamer when he spoke of the beauty of genuine brotherhood and peace being more precious than diamonds or silver or gold. “Let the new age dawn.” Yes, racial tension does exist. But it is time for us to embrace the new age that Mandela spoke of, an age in which people remember that the same frames of bone lie underneath every person’s skin, no matter their colour. In fact, recent studies prove all human beings share 99% of the same DNA, regardless. * TOGETHER WE CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE: Regardless of your age, sex, race or even country, we are all on this Earth together. As Mandela constantly reminded us: “the world can be a better place, if we put our differences aside and work together”. * GIVE HONEST APPRECIATION: Mandela made it a point of always acknowledging those around him. He gave credit where credit was due. There are many heroes in our communities, sung and unsung. However, there are two who stand out for me, who go above and beyond and to me emulate the true spirit of Nelson Mandela. First is Jurie Thevar of the Lenny Naidu Development Institute. Jurie always makes sure the youth are given a space. She advocates for the environment, women’s and children’s rights and goes beyond to assist whenever asked to. And then there is Clive Pillay, the programmes co-ordinator of the Nelson Mandela Community Youth Centre. Clive embodies what an activist should be. His energy, passion and creativeness in ensuring that people are assisted are unmatched. He always makes time to listen and give advice to all, the young and even older. Mandela’s life has impacted me greatly, from my career choice to my volunteerism to the way I treat all people with whom I come in contact. In 2013 Mandela left us, but with a legacy to live up to. A legacy of compassion, education and selflessness. It is now up to us, not only South Africans but all global citizens, to live his dream.  * Previn Vedan is an attorney at JD Vedan and Company and a member of Shayomo, the Shallcross Youth Movement. POST