Durban - Family drama will play out in all its glory in the fourth instalment of the Broken Promises franchise - with many thigh-slapping moments in the offing. Broken Promises 4-Ever will also reveal a few secrets, said director, producer and scriptwriter, Kumaran Naidu. “The film continues to follow the Padayachee family, showing the effect the much loved Amsugi has on society and her losing control of her family due to new relationships being formed.” Cinema-goers, he said, would also learn why Amsugi’s grandson, Mandoza, absent from the previous movie, had disappeared. “There will be lots of answers about his disappearance, as well as what happened to his mother,” said Naidu, who added that the film was a modern take on the dysfunctional family. “The franchise mainly dealt with issues between the mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, which is typical for most Indian homes, and indeed, many homes in general. "There can never be harmony. This time, I decided to reboot the franchise, keeping the same concept but reversing the roles. The focus is now on the relationship between the father-in-law and son-in-law.” He said the plot also focused on issues between Hindi and Tamil-speaking people, and those from different religious backgrounds. “Many will be able to relate to this story,” he assured. Broken Promises 4-Ever was filmed in Verulam, Phoenix, oThongathi and the Durban CBD. Naidu said he chose to have open auditions so everybody had an opportunity to show off their talent. “I then adapted a person to suit a role or even rewrote the role to suit the person. I believe the community has great hidden talents and they need mentoring to shine in the spotlight.” Naidu said although the story revolved around an Indian family, every patron, regardless of race, would understand the complex family troubles. “The movie is now solid, and I think people will love it as they will relate to almost everything.” Actor and executive producer Fadeen Mia said they often spent 20 hours a day on the project. “The pre-production and post-production work was brutal, but we got through it, and I cannot wait for the world to see it.” Mia, who plays Mandoza’s best friend Harsheet, said he and his character shared similar traits. “He is a lot like me - wild, carefree, naughty and the life of the party, and can tend to get in trouble, but that is what makes him stand out.” He described his on-screen chemistry with Naicker as “brilliant”. The 34-year-old, who owns Fadeen Productions, will also feature in the local movie, Looking for Love, which will be released next month. Asked what led him down the entertainment route, Mia said: “I completed my BCom degree in management and worked as a senior project manager, but I felt something was missing. "One day I decided to join an acting agency because my love for film needed to be explored. It took me 18 months to land my first gig, but once the bug bit, I found my purpose and the journey began. “While holding a full-time job, I attended auditions at lunchtime and used all my leave for photo shoots. Last year, I decided to take the leap and commit to it full-time. "It has been the most stressing and hectic time of my life, but also the most enjoyable and beautiful - and I would not change it for the world.” He continued: “I know what opportunities lie for Indian artists and one of my goals is to create and invest in Indian content, so we can give Indian artists a career in the country. "I plan to always inspire and motivate. Always help those around me, and always be here to give all a chance and push those who are willing to work hard.” The movie features the original cast of Kogie Naidoo as Amsugi, Neel Pillay as Reuben and Rani Pillay as Bommi. POST