Durban - The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) have welcomed the conviction of a police officer, nabbed for killing his girlfriend during an argument in June last year. Constable JP Mfeka, who was based at Ndwedwe SAPS was found guilty of the murder of Monica Nyawose who died shortly after her arrival at a local hospital. Ipid spokesperson, Moses Dlamini, said Mfeka and Nyawose had gotten into an argument. “She had been out during the day and when she got home, they got into an argument. According to Mfeka, the woman grabbed his firearm and a shot was fired. The bullet hit her in the stomach,” he said. Dlamini said the Nyawose was rushed to hospital where it was established that Nyawose had infact been shot on her left buttock and the bullet exited through her stomach. “Mfeka was arrested and charged with Nyawose’s murder. He was then found guilty and sentenced for 15 years imprisonment at the Verulam Magistrates Court,” Dlamini said. Meanwhile, four men were arrested following a search operation undertaken by Harding police earlier this week. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbhele, said police recovered suspected stolen property, three unlicensed firearms with a total of 46 rounds of ammunition. "During an operation, police spotted a vehicle with four occupants driving along Musgrave Road and were instructed to stop. A search was conducted and suspects were found with three pistols with their serial numbers filed off, a number of ammunitions, cash and suspected stolen property," she said. Mbhele said the men were also liked to a number of robberies in Port Edward and in the Eastern Cape. "Suspects were charged for possession of unlicensed firearms, possession of ammunitions and possession of suspected stolen property. They appeared in the Ezinqoleni Magistrates Court and were remanded in custody. They were then transferred to the Eastern Cape where they are appearing in the Bizana Magistrates’ Court on a charge of robbery. The confiscated firearms will be subjected for ballistic testing to ascertain if they were used in the commission of crime," Mbhele said. Daily News