Durban - Armed with their textbooks, calculators and a ton of stationery, a number of matric pupils will leave for different destinations around the world to compete in international Olympiads. Raisethorpe Secondary pupil Muhammad Bayat left for Iran on Friday to compete in a biology Olympiad, while his fellow Pietermaritzburg schoolmates Abishek Budhram, 16, and Yeshan Naidoo, 17, prepare to leave for the Czech Republic today for a chemistry Olympiad. Rucille Ramlal, 17, and Sheshan Jehoiakim Pillay, 17, of Heather Secondary School, also of Pietermaritzburg, and Amod Nuzhat, 17, of Orient Islamic School, in Durban, will compete in a physics Olympiad and will travel to Lisbon, Portugal, on Friday. POST caught up with the pupils days before their departure. Muhammad, who aims to study medicine, said: “My family and I are excited that I will be representing the country. “When I participated in the national Olympiad I didn’t expect to place anywhere but when I learnt I had qualified for the international one, that boosted my confidence. I can’t wait to meet the others to learn about their cultures and ways of life.” Abishek added that preparing for the upcoming event had been challenging. “It has two sections - a five hour theory aspect and a five hour practical aspect. We prepared using online textbooks and an e-learning site. “The work we do at school could not help us, so we had to attend lectures at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. “I had to study fourth year chemistry from two lecturers. It was tough but interesting because I worked in a real lab environment.” He wants to study either medicine or engineering. Yeshan competed in an Olympiad in Thailand last year but had not earned a spot. “I wasn’t as prepared. I was overwhelmed but this time around I am ready. I know what’s expected of me and I changed my study patterns,” said Yeshan, who aims to study chemistry. Sheshan, who has set his sights on actuarial science, would be happy whatever the outcome. “I have been preparing for the Olympiad since February. We have been pushed by our team leaders to do our best and I have studied to the best of my ability. Whatever happens, I am just glad to have been apart of the Olympiad and represent my country.” Rucille said while preparing, he enrolled for tuition at the university. “I am interested to see how the level of work we do here compares internationally.” Aspirant doctor Amod added that although Olympiads seemed challenging, it was best to tackle a challenge head on. “Yes the questions will be complex but I feel I am prepared.” The pupils are expected to return home later this month. POST