The 51-year-old senior internal auditor said it comprised six Hindi and one Punjabi song and three Urdu ghazals. “My first album, Sai Love, was an offering of devotional songs recorded in memory of my parents for the support they gave me while moulding my singing career. “The inspiration behind this cover album was a compilation of songs that are my personal favourites and span many years. I included ghazals as I have fond memories of my family sitting around the radio on a Sunday evening listening to it. "It is a genre of music that is close to my heart and I love the uniqueness of the music,” said Chetty. Her songs, she said, had received airplay on Radio Hindvani and Lotus FM. “I have had positive feedback from listeners. I remember during one radio interview, a listener said he was moved by one of my tracks. It was the last song he and his late wife heard together and had brought back fond memories. It was really touching. “I always choose music where listeners can relate to the meaning of the song whether happy or sad.” She said her love for devotional music began when she was a child - having attended Hindi language classes, participating in eisteddfods and singing in her late father Heera’s band, Visha Entertainers. Chetty later joined Saraswati Orchestra, Chand Roshni, Akashvani Melodies, Padma Entertainers, Prema Entertainers, Saraswati Shainaaz, Vishnu Sungeet and the Tansen Nepaul Showband. “I also performed as a guest artist for the Young Orientals, Luxmi Melodies, Regal Entertainers and Saraswati Awaaz.” She described singing as a “God-given talent”. “I am grateful to my parents, who recognised my talent and provided the platform for me to perform for audiences, my spiritual guru, Sri Sathya Sai Baba and those who have appreciated my music.” The mother of two is working on her Tamil and Telugu pronunciation before she performs in the vernacular. “I am also currently working with lyricists on producing original tracks. I hope to release another devotional album in the near future.” For those trying to break into the industry, she advised: “Music must be appealing to the ear. Unfortunately not everyone can be a singer, but for those intent on pursuing this field, find a music teacher to help you mould your skill before you contemplate going public.” Chetty is married to businessman Stanley and has two children, Vurnashia and Prinevan. The album is available at Maharaj’s Prayer Shop in Gemcity and the Mount Edgecombe Plaza in Phoenix. For enquiries call 083 320 8486. POST