Durban - The funeral service of 18-year-old Nikyle Singh who died in a accident on Higginson Highway over the weekend, will take place today (Wednesday). The funeral will take place at the Christian Life Church in Welbedacht East and thereafter proceed to the Clairwood Cemetry. Singh and his friend Tevin Pillay,24, were driving along Higginson Highway to Mobeni Heights to assist a friend, Pratish Harilal, and while en route allegedly struggled to evade debris on the road following a service delivery protest earlier that evening. Singh, a carpenter from Welbedacht, had fetched Harilal’s private vehicle, an Audi, as he had been experiencing mechanical problems with his work car, when tragedy struck. While apparently evading the rocks and boulders, Singh lost control of the car, which veered off the Unit 5 bridge and landed on its roof. Pillay, who also lives in Welbedacht, was ejected from the passenger seat. He is currently in hospital on life support. Singh’s body was found metres away from the mangled wreck on Link Road. He later died in hospital. An off- duty police constable has been hailed as a hero for his efforts to assist two young men who were injured while trying to dodge rocks and boulders - and later thieves who tried to strip them of valuables - in Chatsworth on Sunday night.
Constable Lendal Naidoo, who was driving toward The Ridge shopping centre with his girlfriend, noticed a body lying on the ground and his instinct to help kicked in. “I grabbed my first aid kit and ran to assist the injured man on the road. His body was shaking and I feared moving him, so I tried to keep him as calm as possible,” said Naidoo. Minutes later, Naidoo said he heard people’s voices and shuffling on the overhead bridge. “That’s when I realised this was not the only injured person. I ran up the bank and a group of people were stripping the clothing off this young man. I shouted at them to leave him alone and they ran off. That’s when I noticed the car had also been stripped. I carried the boy, who was unconscious, down the road to his friend and we waited until help arrived.” Both men were transported to RK Khan Hospital where Singh succumbed to his injuries. Pillay remains in a critical condition. His mother, Judy, hailed Naidoo as a godsend. “If he did not stop and help my son, I don’t know what the outcome would have been. The constable is the reason Tevin is still alive,” said a grateful Judy, who worked with her son at Gems Schoolwear. Pillay sustained scratches to his hands and feet and an open wound to his head. “He is currently on life support but he responds to us by winking or tearing and he even moved his head slightly.” Judy said Pillay, who was married and had a one-year-old daughter Azariah, had informed her earlier that evening that he was going with Singh to assist Hiralal. “He took off his ring and watch and changed his shoes before saying ‘I will be back soon’. We didn’t think anything would happen.” Clive Pillay, Singh’s stepfather, said his son was a safe driver. They were still trying to come to terms with his death. “He was just 18. He was innocent. His life had just begun. He spent his first Father’s Day with his six-month-old son, Nikaylin, in style because he was so excited. Up until Monday, his wife Serena still believed he was coming home.” A representative from the Bottlebrush informal settlement, Falake Mhlongo, denied the accident was caused by the protest. “People were upset because they were not getting electricity. I cannot blame the accident on the protest. They could have lost control of the car. “People are quick to create hype and division between Bottlebrush and the Indian community.” Quenton Chetty of Pinetown Protection Services said he was fed up with violent service delivery protests on Link Road. “Every time there’s a protest we lose lives. I think those responsible need to be brought to book.” Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed the police were investigating a case of culpable homicide. POST