There were no stipulations for applicants. They could be widowed, married, single, divorced, dark skinned, light skinned, fat or thin, this did not matter. She aimed to provide a platform to showcase the beauty of all women - something considered to be against the grain of industry and societal standards. It also afforded women an opportunity to reach out to communities in need through her foundation, SHE Force. SHE, Bisaal said, stood for Serve, Help and Empower. “While growing up, I was a prim and proper little madam. I always made sure my clothes, shoes and nail polish matched, so it was no surprise when I chose a career in beauty over being a pharmacist or accountant,” Bisaal said. The 49-year-old mother of two had lived at the time with her maternal grandparents, KLalloo and Jasodha, in Merebank, along with her father, Juggie Juggnath, a businessman, mother Prem, a teacher, and two younger brothers. She had an older sister, Shakti, who died at the age of 3 after contracting meningitis. “My grandfather was also a businessman. We moved in with him so my mother could care for my grandmother, who was ill. My grandfather was very influential in my life. “He was also a philanthropist who served the community of Merebank and he taught me the importance of helping and empowering others.” Bisaal attended Alipore Primary School and then Ganges Secondary, both in Merebank, and participated in gymnastics and swimming. In Grade 9, she transferred to Protea Secondary in Chatsworth as she was intent on learning music and physical science. “My mother was a teacher at the school, so it made travelling easier. After my grandmother’s death we bought a three-bedroom home in Isipingo Hills. “I fondly remember us having a mendhi tree and when my cousins came over we would crush the leaves and apply it on our hands.” At 16 she met her businessman husband, Roshan, now 50. “I was at a cousin’s wedding and he was also invited, but was serving salad to the guests. Back then we did not use fancy caterers to serve the food and in most instances the young boys had to do it. “From then on we developed a friendship.” Bisaal said she would never forget how Roshan would travel from Chatsworth to his aunt’s home in Isipingo just to walk past her house to see her for a few seconds. After matriculating, she attended a beauty college in Pietermaritzburg. “I was one of four Indian girls chosen to study at the college. This was the first time the college allowed this.” After she completed the year-long course, she was offered a job as a beauty therapist with retail store The Hub. Two years later, she married Roshan in a Hindu ceremony in front of 1000 guests at the Amanzimtoti hall. They went on to have two daughters, Adhira, 26, a financial accountant, and Rohini, 24, a dentist. Bisaal lived with her in-laws for eight years before moving to their three-bedroom home in Rossburgh. “When we got married my husband was just a driver. He gradually progressed to a van assistant and supervisor.” She opened a beauty clinic in West Street in the Durban CBD where she specialised in permanent make-up. “I just took a chance and trusted in God that my business would flourish.” Soon after she opened shop, Roshan’s company faced closure. “He took his ‘package’, bought a bakkie and started a courier company.” Bisaal said at times they had faced uphill financial battles, with the profits from her business providing for the family. “But Roshan’s business took a turn for the better when he merged the company with one from Johannesburg. “Since then the courier business has grown.” She went on to study towards a degree in management and pursued other courses related to beauty. But after being the victim of two attempted hijackings, she decided to close the clinic and opened one in Springfield. Bisaal decided to close shop again after the lease expired, to have more time to focus on her children.” While at home Bisaal started the Mrs India South Africa contest in 2001 and more recently, the Miss Uniworld pageant. “I have since handed over the Mrs India South Africa to someone else and am focusing on the youth. My aim is to pull out uncut diamonds and make them shine.” Bisaal said her pageants were never about skin colour, money, status or showing off bodies in swimsuits. “My pageant has always been a platform for women to give back to society through the SHE Force foundation. “Through the foundation we have help children’s organisations, schools, the elderly and even started a sanitary pad drive.” When she is not busy with pageantry, Bisaal loves spending time with her family. “I don’t have many hobbies. I enjoy the occasional swim in our pool but I am the happiest when I am with my hubby and daughters. “We can go on random drives, have dinner together or sit on the couch watching television. They are certainly my pride and joy.” POST