Durban - Children's Rights activists have welcomed the court's decision to keep an alleged rapist behind bars until his trial begins. The 43-year-old Verulam man is alleged to have his raped his 10-year-old stepdaughter more than 900 times. On Friday, Chief magistrate Irfaan Khalil denied the man bail in Verulam Family Court. He said the accused was a threat to society and the victim. Speaking shortly after the bail decision, Bobbi Bear spokesperson Jackie Branfield said she was "absolutely thrilled" that the man was denied bail. "It is about time. Well done to the judiciary, I salute you. This sends a message that children are valuable, and that they are our future. "I honestly believe in this type of case, with the war on children in South Africa, the bail conditions should be stricter." Branfield added: "I do realise that a man is innocent until proven guilty, but in the case of an alleged sexual predator, more care from the justice system should be taken of the victim. "So often in these types of cases, if the person is granted bail, they go back and threaten the victim, or the family or the caregiver." President of the Chatsworth Child Welfare, Logan Naidu, welcomed the decision and said it was in the best interest of everyone to keep the accused behind bars. "If released on bail he (the accused) could have either committed suicide or the community may take the law into their own hands, and he wouldn't have faced trial." Naidu said the community must also shoulder some responsibility. "So many community members claimed to have known what was happening. They need to come forward, even if it is anonymous." Shivy Harilall, senior social worker at Family and Marriage Society of SA (FAMSA) said: "So many of these type of cases get swept under the carpet, so at least justice can be seen to be done. If the man is innocent then he doesn't not have to worry, because bail is not a conviction," said Harilall. Harilall said the victim also must be considered. The matter was adjourned to August. DAILY NEWS