The chairperson of the KZN Fishing Forum, Riaz Khan, said fishermen have reached the end of their tether and would soon tell authorities, including the eThekwini Municipality and Transnet, that enough is enough. “People can only take so much. We have been hosting humble marches to air our concerns. We have never been unruly or vandalised anything but we are still not being looked after. "We have had numerous meetings with the city and other authorities but we are given empty promises. It feels as though they are disregarding us. "They are not interested in the people’s plight and if push comes to shove, we will occupy the piers illegally,” said Khan. “I was informed that Lucky Pier at North Beach would be reopened but years have passed and still nothing.” Substantial fishermen in Durban central have now found themselves subjected to fish at the Southern Breakwater P ier, near Mini Town, a grassy patch at Wilson’s Wharf on the Victoria Embankment and opposite the old Café Fish adjacent to the Point Yacht Club. With unemployment being at an all-time high and the economy in a lull, Khan said people are battling to make ends meet. “The problem is that the rich are being looked after and the poor are being oppressed. "The subsistence fishermen catch fish and sell them to provide for their families. If you understand their backgrounds, you will understand their plight. Substantial fishermen cannot afford to go out to sea. "Trying to get officials to see this is like trying to squeeze blood out of a stone.” Khan said he was also opposed to the proposed development of a desalination plant at the Bluff as it would further affect fishermen. The desalination plant is a drought-proof alternative water supply that will provide drinking water to a region. “The reason is simple. Emissions created by desalination plants contribute to climate change. Brine is a high concentration solution of salt in water. "The brine that is released in the plant goes back into the water and that kills the fish and over time you will not be able to fish in that area. Richards Bay was a pilot project and you can see what is happening there with the theft of pipes. So we are saying we don’t want it here.” Desmond D’sa of the South Durban Community Environment Alliance (SDCEA) described the restrictions as being “outrageous”, adding that harmful developments, including the proposed desalination plant, sand mining and offshore oil and gas drilling would further jeopardise fishing stock and ultimately the subsistence fishermen’s survival. “Besides being denied access to the piers on north and south beaches, they are also fighting against illegal fishing trawlers that net fish in the ocean and leave them with next to nothing. "How can a substantial fisherman, who relies on fish daily, put food on the table if there isn’t anything left? More needs to be done to protect our fishermen.” He continued: “The pier that is currently allocated to fishermen (near Mini Town) is cracking and lives have been lost there. Just two years ago, a big wave hit a fisherman and he was taken in.” D’sa said that at present, fishermen are packed like sardines on that pier. “It’s almost impossible to find a spot to fish on a busy day. Transnet was supposed to open the North Pier and Grunter Gully (also along the Golden Mile) to us but they are now playing games. “If they want to fish on Durban’s south coast they need to find transport and in many instances it’s not financially possible whereas at the beachfront, they can travel by bus or train.” The municipality had not commented by the time of publication, while Transnet’s National Ports Authority’s Acting Port Manager at the Port of Durban, Nokuzola Nkowane, said the Port of Durban’s new harbour master was investigating the matter and they would respond accordingly. POST