Durban - Growing up in a house of praise and worship, it was inevitable for a young Montclair gospel artist to turn to music and now Jeremiah Maistry is set to launch his debut solo single, Here I Am. The 19-year-old praise and worship leader at In His Presence Ministries in Chatsworth said his love for the ministry and music was borne at home. “I was brought up in a musically inclined household. My mother Shireen used to sing at home and at church and my brother Jerome accompanied her on the keyboard. "This was a great motivation for me as I also wanted to play alongside her, just like my brother,” recalled Maistry. At age 5, the little drummer’s dream of performing on stage with his mommy at church had materialised. “This is what pushed me closer to music and the ministry.” At age 13, Maistry and other youth members of his church formed the band Limitless. “As a band of young men, we released our debut EP, Jesus to the Street, and we travelled around Chatsworth performing at events. "We also received airplay on Highway Radio. Last year, I launched myself as a solo artist and the band changed its name to Jeremiah Maistry and Limitless. “I have since had the opportunity to work with amazing people in the industry and produce great music. Later this year, I will release my first solo album.” He is inspired by his pastor Deon Maistry, singer-songwriter and guitarist Jonathan Butler and music ministerial visionary Benjamin Dube. Talking about the single, which has already been played on several radio stations, Maistry said it sent a specific message that God was the answer to all situations. “Releasing my first solo single was an amazing accomplishment. God has been good to me. "He has blessed me with an abundance of opportunities, especially being able to travel around the country and internationally. 'I believe the greatest investment you can make is in yourself, so invest in your abilities. My goal is to spread that message and touch the hearts of all the people I encounter.” He said the single’s official launch would be at the Worship 2018 concert at the Vineyard Church in Chatsworth on July 29. He will also perform alongside gospel singers Shaun P, Adrian Sing and the duo Lungelo and Portia. Maistry is currently working on his album. POST