Durban - A Chatworth temple guru who turned to the courts in a bid to keep his job has been accused of using a ruse to stay in power and allowing traditions to fall away. The claims against Archie Somasundram Hirasen were made in an answering affidavit submitted by the interim chairperson of the Siva Manram Crisis Committee, Elvis Padayachee, to the high court in Durban. Hirasen, the Siva Manram president, trustee and guru, had sought court relief in May against his detractors - Padayachee and a couple, Renita and Rajantheran Vadivelu. However, Rajantheran died earlier in June of natural causes. Hirasen had claimed that a “dissident group” were attempting to oust him from his position at the 50-year-old organisation. Responding to one of the complaints against him, that no biennial meeting had been held in the past eight years, he explained that this was because he had not received the temple's financial records since 2010. However, in his affidavit, Padayachee said Hirasen handled the temple's books as if it were his own business. “On numerous occasions he had office-bearers of the (temple) sign blank cheques and hand them to him. "He did not account to the second respondent (Renita Vadivelu) and other office-bearers for how much the cheque was made out for and what it was utilised for. “A substantial amount of money was collected at fundraising events which were not banked and not receipted,” added Padayachee. He claimed that Renita had handed over all financial records from 2010 to 2016 to Hirasen, and that she was in possession of records from 2016 to current date. “The biennial general meeting (BGM) was to be held in March 2016, according to the constitution. However, the first applicant failed to hold the meeting. “The first applicant has purposely delayed producing the financial statement so that he could remain in office without actually holding a BGM since 2010. "The first applicant's modus operandi was that he could remain in office and not hold elections if the financial records were not done. "The financial records were not done because he failed to give the accountant, which is also his own business accountant, the instructions to do so,” claimed Padayachee. He said members of the temple's council had taken a resolution of no confidence in Hirasen, and the interim committee was elected to ensure that there was compliance with the temple's constitution. Padayachee further stated that Hirasen thereafter “bused in worshippers” from other temples. Padayachee has asked the court to dismiss Hirasen’s application and to direct that the BGM be held within a fixed time period. Hirasen has until July 17 to file his response. POST