Durban - Some do it for a worthy cause, others to test their skills and endurance, and others still as a way of overcoming personal hurdles. Former Silverglen resident Mags Natasen, 43, undertook the grueling trek to the top of Mount Kilimanjaro - the highest mountain in Africa - for all three reasons - and returned triumphant. Walking 68km over six days and also along the rim of a volcano, the Joburg single mother of two said it was the toughest physical and mentally challenging thing she had done in her life. She was part of the Trek4Mandela Executive Climb and summited the mountain in Tanzania last week. Former Greenpeace head Kumi Naidoo, whom Natasen described as her “real life hero”, was among the 47-member group. Only 26 of them summited. “My feet dragged my body up on summit night; we walked for about 12 hours and as I climbed each mountain I thought back to all the hurdles I faced in my own life,” Natesan told POST after returning home at the weekend. While the climb was an “amazing experience”, it was grueling, she said. On a WhatsApp group, she posted that she had got “terribly ill” on the summit, suffering from headaches and nose bleeds. “We’d been climbing (on the day they set off for the summit) since 10 pm and by 6 am with all this and numb fingers I had tears and was ready to quit. Ice and snow conditions made it tougher.” Some in her group had to quit when nausea, vomiting, “visual disturbances or hallucinations kicked in”, she wrote. “As we got higher it got colder and the fatigue was so bad as we blinked we were literally falling asleep,” she told POST. “It was so cold that even if I wanted to take a bit of chocolate I would break my teeth because it was frozen. After managing to convince my body to follow through, I realised it was Madiba’s birthday.” The team went through a rainforest, a desert and slipped and skidded their way through the snow. As Natasen reached Stella Point she saw Uhuru Peak. “We walked at the rim of a volcano. We reached 5895m and the moment we got to Uhuru we all got emotional. I cried thinking about all the obstacles in my life and the loved ones that I have lost.” She said not only had she realised a childhood dream “on a scale I never imagined”, she had also epitomised the many mountains women in society continue to climb every day “in our fight for equality and social justice”. “As a woman who has transcended personal trauma, and a single mother to a special needs child, I continue to face my own mountains on a daily basis which made this climb symbolic for me on several levels,” she said. Natasen also wanted her daughters, Lauren and Jesse, to witness the power of social activism “and know that women can achieve anything through faith, resilience, and grit”. Trek4Mandela climbers typically raise about R85000 to fund the climb and sponsor sanitary pads for 100 girls from disadvantaged communities over one year. “I pledged to carry 200 girls over their five years of high school,” said Natesan. “I was the second climber to reach the R100000 mark and will continue to raise funds for Caring4Girls so that my target of 200 girls over five years is met and possibly exceeded.” Describing herself as “free-spirited, adventurous and determined”, Natasen said she plans to explore forests in East Africa in the next few months. POST