Durban - Relatives of a family seemingly beset by crime and tragedy are baffled by yet another shooting. At the centre of much of it is a member of the Patel family, former Polokwane cage fighter Rameez, who has been charged for the murder of his mother, Mahjebeen Banu, 51, who was shot dead last year, and his wife Fatima, 28, who was shot and strangled in 2015. Last week, Rameez’s brother Razeen was shot a day before he could testify as a key witness for the State in the trial in connection with Fatima’s murder. Razeen was set to retake the witness stand after a prosecution application to have him recalled, was granted. He was set to provide further evidence after he felt intimidated when he initially testified. Limpopo police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe confirmed that Razeen was shot by unknown suspects on Sunday morning, along the R71 Road between Mankweng and Polokwane near Makgeng Village. When asked about the severity of his injuries and the number of gunshots he sustained, Ngoepe said he was unable to supply more information because issues around the victim were “sub judice”. A source, however, revealed that Razeen was shot four times and on Monday still had a bullet stuck in his brain. Ngoepe said, “the suspects are still on the run”, and confirmed that a case of attempted murder had been opened. National Prosecuting Authority spokesperson Mashudu Malabi said the case was provisionally adjourned to September as they were waiting for Razeen to recover. “He is the key witness in the case and he needs to make a full recovery before he returns to court.” Malabi had last week assured media that Razeen was doing well and would testify as planned the past Monday when he failed to appear at the Limpopo High Court the previous week. The investigating officer had reportedly gone to his home in Nirvana and found his bakkie, keys to his house and cellphone. It is also believed that a blood stain was found on the ground. A close family friend of Rameez told last year that she believed that he was being framed by “his many enemies”. But the woman, who requested anonymity, said the several related incidents are worrying. Rameez is standing trial in the Limpopo High Court for the murder of his wife and the mother of his three children. Fatima’s body was found in their rental apartment in Nirvana, Polokwane, in April 2015 with a bullet to the face. Her skull and cheekbones were allegedly shattered as a result. She was also strangled, and her jaw dislocated. The young businessman has pleaded not guilty to the murder. He is also accused of murdering his mother, who was shot and killed in September. Rameez was out on R250 000 bail when he was arrested for his mother’s death. He is in custody. His father, Feroz Patel, 54, was shot and killed in August 2016 in what was believed to be a botched robbery. Rameez, known as “Lala” in the Polokwane community, owns a successful business, Prime Wholesalers, which he had co-owned with his late father. POST