Durban - The bustling streets of Durban’s CBD are home to a variety of retails stores, restaurants, vendors and office blocks, but between the concrete walls are the hidden gems comprising quaint landmark arcades, which date back to the 1900s. One of these is the Madressa Arcade, which was built in 1927, and for many Indian South African parents and grandparents, provided essential and affordable knick-knacks within walking distance of the other. A first-timer will be left in awe by its vibrancy and community infused with culture. The arcade, which boasts over 40 shops, is part of the historic core of the Grey Street Precinct and together with the adjacent Ajmeri Arcade links Dr Yusuf Dadoo (Grey) Street with Cathedral Lane and provides an important pedestrian linkage between the city and Berea Road station, generating a mass of passing trade for business owners. From custom made buttons and beaded jewellery to traditional African garments and haberdashery, there is always something on display to catch your eye. For some business owners, who inherited these family run shops from their great grandparents in the 1950s, no shopping mall can provide the same ambience and as a result, leaving never crossed their minds. Others are relatively new and are adamant that these historical nooks and crannies make Durban tick. The owner of Beadworx, Mohamed Sadick Modan, opened shop prior to the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa and still believes it is a great location to the tourist trade. He sells beaded jewellery that includes earrings, necklaces and bracelets, priced from as little as R5, hats and traditional African garments, sandals, skirts and wedding attire for women and men. Modan also sells the isidwaba, a leather skirt, isicwaya, a skin used to cover a bride’s breast at the cultural ceremony, and the ibheshu, an apron made of calf-skin worn by men. “When I started the business, it was not a common trade. I was just one of three shops that catered for these items in the arcade, and as a result, there was increased foot traffic, and business boomed. Back then, during the World Cup, tourists flocked here for affordable souvenirs.” The 45-year-old of North Beach said over the years business had slowed down as similar stores mushroomed. “But we don’t worry as everyone needs to survive. Also, if a customer comes to us and we don’t have what they are looking for, we will refer them to the next shop.” Despite the stiff competition and a lull in business, he refuses to close shop. “Things are quiet in the middle of the month, but it picks up at the month end. We have a decent rental payment in comparison to other shops in Grey Street, so we are still able to make ends meet.” His father, 73-year-old Ahmed, has been at the arcade much longer. He opened his haberdashery business, Sols Discount Centre, over 45 years ago and has been at the same spot since then. Knowing the importance of keeping up with the latest trends, this grandfather of three, who still gets up every morning to tend to customers, has ensured he stocks the latest blends of wool, buttons and cotton. Asked if he considered relocating to a shopping complex, Ahmed firmly shook his head. “This is the environment we have adapted to over the years, and we are all family here.” When further questioned about crime in the CBD, he responded: “Yes, shop owners are concerned about the crime. We have the odd case of pick pocketing or theft at the nearby (bus and taxi) ranks where the robbers run through the arcade. But we know how to handle these situations.” Next door, you will find Mohammed Essack’s specialised bead shop abuzz with activity. If you fancy a new fashion accessory, you can find a string of beads for a meagre R1.30. Essack, of Overport, took over the shop, Phutumani Bazaar, from his grandfather, who opened it over four decades ago. “My grandfather, who was known as Mr E, worked hard to establish his name, and made sure he provided for the wants and needs of his customers.” For customised buttons, buckles and belts - to match an outfit - take your fabric a short stroll away to Maya Trading Centre. Owner Mohan Doolabh, 71, took over the business from his father 20 years ago. However, the shop has been in existence since 1972. “The unemployment rate in our country is extremely high, and we believe we are helping the home sewing industry as many of our clientele want customised pieces at affordable prices to compliment the outfits they are designing. Our name is established.” Doolabh hoped to pass the shop on to the next generation, to keep their family’s legacy alive. As you head for the exit at Cathedral Road, you will meet Sibs Pather, who said her late father, Visvanathan, was one of the country’s first non-white jewellery engravers. She used to run her dad’s jewellery shop, SV Pather Jewellery, but closed it down a few years ago after a spate of robberies. She now sells beaded costume jewellery and traditional wear from the premises. While chatting, the 67-year-old, of Victoria Street, showed off some of her dad’s engravings and crest emblems, which she holds dear to her heart. “My father ran a flourishing jewellery shop, which he started over 50 years ago. As a little girl, I used to watch him work near the lamplight, engraving away. He had high profile clients, who wanted special engravings on their gold jewellery,” she reminisced. “I took over the business about 20 years ago, but had to close due to the crime and started a new trade.” She said although she did not need to work, she enjoyed being in the arcade. “I grew up here, and it holds dear memories.” Be sure to visit this well known gem, and once you get talking to the shop owners and their children, you will realise Madressa Arcade is more than just pretty beads and buttons. The arcade is open from Monday to Saturday from 7.30am until 5pm. POST