Durban - A 14-minute voice recording of Deputy Mayor Fawzia Peer telling a Reservoir Hills resident that service delivery is not her problem has been doing the rounds on social media. Ron Naidoo, told IOL, that she was so "disgusted" with Peer's comments to her regarding a service delivery issue in Shannon Drive, Reservoir Hills, that she decided to share it with everyone. Fed up with the issue of refuse lying all over their streets and nothing being done, Naidoo said as a last resort she had sent an email addressed to Mayor Zandile Gumede, Deputy mayor Fawzia Peer and City Manager over the weekend addressing her concerns. On Monday, Naidoo said she received a missed call, followed by a voicemail from Peer and called her back. To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that
    supports HTML5 video This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window.  The conversation starts with Peer first confirming if Ron was in fact a man or a woman. Peer continues asking Naidoo "What is the problem? First answer this question: Do you have a councillor in your ward? What is the job of the ward coucillor? Because you write a letter to the mayor, which you wouldn't even bother to listen because the ward councillor is supposed to help. "I'm not there for service delivery. I've got 115 wards to worry about. We don't particularly do service delivery on our own," said Peer. Peer goes on to tell Naidoo that "you all elected the DA councillor who sits at home and does bugger all, and do nothing." Naidoo responds: "If memory serves me correctly the ANC councillor did nothing as well." Peer hits back: "Doesn't matter, I'm not bothered about him. He is not my councillor, he is not my son. You understand I am for myself." The two women continue arguing about councillors. Peer hits back: "I cannot control the DA councillor. If he was with the ANC we will say remove him because he is not doing his job. Naidoo said the DA councillor was doing his job but was being "cut off at the knees". Peer says: "That is not my problem. If you have a problem with a councillor/ward councillor, his cut-off knees or whatever is done to him ,don't put me in the picture. I am not your councillor. I'm not here for service delivery." Naidoo told Peer that she just watched a video where Peer talks about service delivery. "I am talking about service delivery holistically...... I can't come to your ward and worry about cleaning up your place. What do you think the councillor must do? He's got a bloody job to do. Kick him out. I'm doing mine where I am the chairperson of security....I do all that, I can't pay attention to service delivery." Peer goes on to say that if people had a complaint, they would speak to her nicely and not pick on her work. "I never got an email from you. Don't pick me out, I'm warning you. Don't pick me out," warned Peer. Naidoo insisted it was not the case. "Look at the letter, as a woman you are so rude to write to the mayor about me. One woman to another woman. That's ridiculous." Naidoo said: "I don't care about being a woman community that needs helps." Peer concludes: "Talk about community sit with your councillor. I'm not here to answer to you." Speaking to IOL, Peer confirmed the heated exchange on Monday and said that she was upset that the email was directed at her. "She wrote the letter saying that the service delivery was not being done by the deputy mayor which is totally wrong. This is the first time I have seen an email from Naidoo regarding her service delivery issue. It was also totally wrong because she should have said councillor so and so is not doing their job. Peer said the minute her office received a service delivery issue they addressed the problem. "The manner in which she addressed the letter, picking on the helicopter ride with Reaction Unit SA when the rock-throwing incident happened. That had to happen because we were looking to install a CCTV camera or employ scholar patrols. That is my portfolio. You can't pick on my job." DAILY NEWS