Durban - The bail hearing of the Verulam man accused of raping his 10-year-old step-daughter for five years has been postponed to Friday for judgment. Closing arguments were heard by both the defense and state at the bail application at the Verulam Family Court on Thursday. The 43 year old man is alleged to have raped his 10 year old stepdaughter more than 900 times. He faces charges of rape, sexual grooming, sexual assault and grevious bodily harm. 
 
At the start of court proceedings, a signed petition from the community was handed into evidence. The community is calling for the court to deny him bail. State prosecutor, San Barthu, read the document into evidence that stated: “We urgently request that the accused is denied bail because he is a danger to society and because of the threats made by him to the community.” But defense attorney, Mondli Mthethwa argued that it should be disregarded. Mthethwa claimed the community is “like the wind” and blows whichever which way. “We ask the court to disregard the petition. Who wrote the petition. We don’t know who he is. The court cannot take it into account.” He referred to the public outcry, saying while it must always be taken into account, it is not the law. “They are not tasked with applying the law. This is the job of this court," said Mthethwa. Mthethwa argued that bail should be granted. “We believe your worship that bail should be granted on the basis that everyone should be treated innocent until proven guilty and that is proven at trial. This court  at this time can not determine whether the accused is guilty or innocent and should not be based on the heinous aspect of the charges.” Chief magistrate Irfaan Khalil agreed with his argument but stated that previous convictions should be taken into account. “His previous convictions showed minimal harm to the complainants.” Mthethwa went on to argue on all aspects of the state’s evidence and questioned the credibility of state witness of investigating officer, Nevarge Lutchminarain. “The court should not rely on the evidence of the investigating officer.” Magistrate Khalil said various allegations were made with regards on the disposition of violence. 
“Should I ignore the degree of violence made in these allegations.” He went on to talk about the victim and argued that the child’s evidence should be treated with caution. “She is a child witness, a single witness and it is a sexual offence with no DNA evidence.” Prosecutor Barthu however argued that the state had a strong prima facie case and found the investigating officer to be a credible witness. She also states that the accused’s affidavit alone should be evidence enough to not grant his application. “His evidence was not open to cross examination. It fell short of the requirements. He also lied about his previous convictions. The victims in the previous convictions were his parents. His Facebook page also shows various firearms. He also has a protection order against him.” She said he was nomadic, violent and would be impossible to trace the accused should he be released. “There is a real risk of the accused absconding.” She said the safety of the accused is also at stake because of the community’s outrage and mentioned that the case is high profile and has attracted widespread attention from community and media. He also allegedly prostituted her to other men in order to supplement his income. He remains in custody at the Westville prison. Angry community members, meanwhile stood outside the courtroom, shouting: “No bail for rapist”. POST