Amid a flurry of suspensions, allegations - and racy home-made videos purportedly of a naked presenter - the public broadcaster says it is on top of things. Spokesperson Kaizer Kgan- yago, however, confirmed rumours that the station’s #2 programmes manager, Santosh Beharie, is on his way out, but said he was not axed. “When one is axed it means they are fired but when a contract ends it means it has come to an end and it’s not renewed,” he told POST. “We cannot say he has been axed. His contract is ending at the end of the month and won’t be renewed and it has been communicated to him.” Added Kganyago: “Just like it happens in a normal working environment, it happens at the SABC. People have contractual obligations to abide by and the rules states we need to deal with those who don’t abide by it. But listeners can rest (assured) knowing we will do what we are supposed to and continue to deliver to the Indian community.” Beharie told POST: “I am not permitted to speak to the media as I am still an employee of the SABC.” Lotus had found itself in an awkward position amid leaks of its internal matters. Online news site Indian Spice claimed several staff members, including Shirdika Pillai, Zakia Ahmed Siddiqui and Byron Naicker, were suspended last week - Pillai allegedly over an e-mail she sent to the station manager, Alvin Pillay, and Siddiqui and Naicker for allegedly standing behind Pillai. While Siddiqui and Naicker could not be reached for comment, Pillai, a veteran radio jock and host of the lunchtime show, referred POST to Kganyago. “These are issues between the management and the employees. It is an internal issue. Many of the presenters are freelancers and governed by their contract so I don’t want to get into their contractual issues,” Kganyago said. Turning to the videos, apparently of a naked female presenter sprawled on a bed performing sexual acts with herself, he said the woman was still “engaging” with management. “Engagements are still continuing with the presenter and once the parties come to an agreement a decision will be made.” SABC board member Krish Naidoo declined to comment on the goings-on at Lotus, but said all allegations must be taken seriously. According to a source close to the station, Beharie’s office has already been cleaned out. “You know it’s quite funny. No one really knows what’s happening any more. We hear all these things but no one really says much. I didn’t even know Santosh was gone, but he is - his office is cleaned out.  “Even with Shridika, she sent an e-mail and apparently she was then suspended. It took me a while to realise what brought about her suspension.” Ashwin Trikamjee, president of the SA Hindu Maha Sabha, said the “instability at Lotus” was a cause for concern “and the sooner the SABC clears the air by informing listeners as to what’s happening, the sooner it will be less of a concern”. Ram Maharaj, the president of the SA Hindu Dharma Sabha, said a lotus was a symbol of purity, serenity and beauty and the station needed to live up to that. “If anyone is found guilty in transgressing their contract then they have to undergo disciplinary due process. But there is a disturbing trend at Lotus in terms of suspending and firing people. You cannot just do it willy nilly because it can have a negative impact on the station,” he said. “Personally, Zakia is one of the best on radio, she is very learned. Management must not cause instability at the station as it plays a huge role as a national instrument in the promotion of the Indian culture.” POST