An elated Shaun Hammond, chairperson of the Silverglen Conservancy and a member of the eThekwini Conservancies Forum, confirmed that the 460ha of land has been declared an official nature reserve by the national government. Therefore, any invader caught there faced being imprisoned or fined and their shacks demolished, he said. Environmental Affairs MEC Sihle Sikalala signed the declaration, which meant that the green lung would be protected by national environmental laws which include the National Environmental Management Protected Areas Act, Hammond said. The same laws govern nature reserves all over South Africa including Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife and South African National Parks. “As much as it was recognised by the local municipality, it was merely protected by by-laws that did not provide the protection it needed. “Now that it has been declared by government, national legislation would use whatever means necessary to protect both the fauna and flora of the land.” Last month more than 500 land invaders arrived at the reserve, clearing bush and intimidating residents of the Seven Tanks community. Over the past two years, many of the residents had abandoned their wood and iron homes after some were stoned and set alight. Their pets have also been targetted, with a dog found hanging from a wire under a mango tree. Hammond said the site was currently being guarded by the Ethekwini Municipality’s Land Invasion Unit, metro police and the Natural Resources Department. “They are doing regular patrols to make sure there are no more invasions of the grasslands.” Hammond said before the latest invasion, eThekwini’s Area Based Management Committee was in the process of developing and upgrading the area. “We wanted to develop a beautiful picnic area and an education area. We had to stop suddenly because of the invasion but hopefully we can continue with the plans soon.” Human Settlements MEC Ravi Pillay, who has condemned land grabs, confirmed that plans were under way to relocate the Seven Tanks families. “Originally we were defending their right to stay there but since the site has been declared officially as a reserve, plans have already been undertaken to move the families.” Seven Tanks resident Sunitha Rampersad, who lives with her husband and two sons on the reserve, said she was unaware of the declaration but would be glad to move if they were given alternate accommodation. “My husband was born and brought up here. This is where his forefathers lived. “If we are asked to move with no other option, other means must be provided,” she said. Eight other nature reserves were also declared including Virginia Bush, Paradise Valley and Giba Gorge. POST