Durban - While hundreds of people across the country took part in a host of Mandela Day celebrations, award winning South African film producer, Anant Singh, presented his documentary feature Celebrating Mandela One Hundreds, which he produced to commemorate the Mandela Centenary at the official Mandela Day celebrations of the South African Embassy in Russia. The event was hosted by Ambassador, Nomasonto Maria Sibanda-Thusi in Moscow. The screening was attended by local Russian dignitaries, media and international diplomatic corps based in Moscow. According to Nilesh Singh, of Videovision, the visit was Singh’s first after his last in 1989, where he presented his then banned film, THE STICK at the Moscow Film Festival.  He said the apartheid censors at the time did not want the film exhibited in South Africa, but the Moscow Film Festival honoured the film with its World Premiere. “In two days time, Anant will share the platform with Mandela’s daughter, Dr Makaziwe Mandela where they will be guest speakers at the Minnesota Orchestra’s ‘Celebrating Mandela 100’ Concert in Minneapolis in the United States.  The Minnesota Orchestra will be touring South Africa with their ‘Celebrating Mandela 100’ Concert from 10 to 18 August, performing in Cape Town, Durban, Pretoria, Soweto and Johannesburg,” Singh said. He said Videovision Entertainment partnered with the Pearls Mall in Umhlanga, Durban and talented Durban artist and sculptor, Lungelo Gumede to host an exclusive, first-time exhibition of wax sculptures of Nelson Mandela created by Gumede. “The exhibition, which is open free to the public will take place at the Pearls Mall from 13 to 22 July 2018.  To enhance the exhibition, Videovision Entertainment has made available the actual car Mandela was driving when he was arrested in the film, MANDELA: LONG WALK TO FREEDOM. Commenting on the screening and upcoming celebrations, the iconic producer said, “It is an honour to use the content we have created and the various products that we have been involved in, to perpetuate Madiba’s legacy in our country and around the world.  Madiba’s legacy is an inspiration to people all over the world and we all have so much to learn from his exceptional example.” Daily News