Homeowners said their road was a “mess” and arguably the filthiest in Durban. They have pleaded with neighbours to be responsible for their waste and not leave it dumped at the side of the road - any day of the week. They maintained that Durban Solid Waste (DSW) collected rubbish on Thursday and Friday but residents were the only ones who could turn things around. When City Watch visited on Wednesday, litter was already piled up waiting to be collected. This has been the cause of the problem, according resident Osman Hoosen. “The city must impose fines on people who take out their waste on odd days. It’s the only way they can learn and obey the by-laws.” They also complained about overcrowding and land invasion, saying it has worsened. Clare Estate is one of the areas surrounded by informal settlements which have a growing population due to its proximity to the city centre. Property owners had previously taken their plight to officials but the city has not found a solution as yet. When Fowzia Shukla reported the problem to the city, she had hoped it would be resolved. She said the city could only help by collecting black bags on designated days. She believed as a community, they had to play a role to change the situation. “Our place has changed compared with five years ago because of people who do not want to comply. Some of our neighbours fail basic hygienic rules. “People just take out their bins on any day of the week, dogs tear the plastic apart and litter ends up all over the place,” said Shukla. According to DSW’s working schedule, rubbish collection is provided once a week to households. Residents are required to place their bags outside only on a predetermined day for collection. DSW also distributes its black bags free to residents every month. Sushila Mahabir said numerous neighbourhood meetings, where issues of cleanliness were discussed, had yielded no results. She said she often got sick from the stench emanating from the waste. Some of the houses in the area were rented to tenants. “We even tried to engage their landlords but some do not even attend our meetings. Every day there are black bags on our streets. It is worse down the road, where informal settlements have mushroomed. We are encouraging residents to be responsible for their waste. If mine is not collected, I take it back inside. My neighbour does the same. Why can’t everyone do the same?” To avoid illegal dumping, DSW has advised residents to contact its nearest depot to report the matter, “giving details of when and where the dumping took place and details of the vehicle”. “DSW will take action against alleged perpetrators. Ratepayers are encouraged to assist DSW in keeping the city clean by reporting illegal dumping,” said Mandla Nsele, city spokesperson. SUNDAY TRIBUNE