Durban - The sudden death of a young journalist while on a training course in Egypt has stunned her loved ones. Yadhana Jadoo, 34, who cut her teeth at POST, was news editor of the Citizen newspaper in Johannesburg. The former award-winning reporter at the Gauteng paper had been settling into her role and looking forward to buying a new car and house, said her devastated aunt, Anithra Jadoo. She said Yadhana had left for Cairo on April 21 and was excited about the three-week-long trip. “She was perfectly fine before she left, so when we all got the call that she had passed away we were left in shock. Yadhana died of natural causes. “She fell ill in the morning and was rushed to the hospital where she passed away.” Yadhana had met other delegates on the training programme and they had taken an instant liking to her, referring to her as a “cool kid”, she said. Her niece, she added, was “humble, playful and delightful. She was all of these and more”, said Jadoo. “Journalism was her passion but her family was her universe and now that she has left us, we are devastated.” She said Yadhana had a promising future. “Everywhere she went she touched people’s lives. We even got messages from political figures, organisations, other journalists and people from around the world. "The former public protector, Thuli Madonsela, was her idol and after Yadhana’s death she sent out a tweet with her condolences. She also called the family and spoke to both her parents.” Yadhana, who had also previously worked at the SA Press Association, had won several awards while at the Citizen, including Journalist of the Year last year. Former POST editor Brijlall Ramguthee met Yadhana when she was a cub reporter who desperately wanted the opportunity to make her mark in the industry. He recalls how she found her feet as a “bona fide journalist” within the newsroom and made a great contribution to the publication. The family is hopeful her funeral will take place this weekend. “The autopsy is done and we are hoping that her body will be here by Wednesday (today) or Thursday (tomorrow).” POST