Durban - Small scale farmers in the historic Seven Tanks community, living in wood and iron homes in the Silverglen Nature Reserve, fear angry land invaders will return and uproot them from their ancestral properties following clashes with police on Sunday. About 30 families continue to live in the reserve after many others had abandoned their homes in recent years following attacks by squatters.



Now they fear another invasion as dozens of shack dwellers have been flattening the land and pegging spots to build homes. 



“We are a poor community and live hand-to-mouth."



"Our forefathers were the pioneers in this area and our roots are planted deep,” said Sunitha Rampersad, who lives with her husband and sons. 



“They worked for a nursery in the reserve and that’s how we got land here to live and farm."



"We all farm and sell every day, making just enough for our family to survive.” 



Rampersad and her family grow methi herbs, also known as fenugreek. 



On Sunday, she watched through her window as law enforcement officials worked for hours to remove dozens of informal dwellers attempting to set up homes. 



“We locked ourselves inside and watched as one guy tried to set up his new home in our yard."



"We can’t do or say anything because we have to think of our family’s safety.”



Rampersad said the police fired rubber bullets, which led to the man scurrying off. 



“We don’t know where he is but he shouted that he was going to come back for us.”



Rampersad’s 59-year-old mother, Susheila Nundlal, who lives nearby, locked herself indoors as a group threw stones at her home. 



“The police tried to chase them off and out of anger and frustration, they surrounded the house and hurled stones. I couldn’t sleep."



"I was terrified they would return.” 



A concerned resident, who declined to be named, said: “I told my family that if anything happens, they must put the dogs away and hide in the bush.”



He said that three years ago, five homes were set alight by invaders. 



While residents fear the worst, they cannot afford to move.



“We sell methi for about R5 a bunch a day. How much are we really coming home with at the end of the day? We need government to step up."



"This place is becoming volatile and we are scared,” said a fellow resident. 



Councillor Tony Govender, whose ward borders the reserve, said: “The guys from Pinetown Security and myself patrolled the area during the day and night on Sunday. Most of the families are living in fear and need to be relocated for their safety.”



Condemning the land grabs, the KZN Department of Human Settlements said they were engaged with service providers to investigate the availability of suitable relocation sites for residents. 



“A decision with respect to the relocation of the Seven Tanks families will be taken soon,” said spokesperson Mbulelo Baloyi.



POST