Opinion - Until recently I wasn’t related to anyone working in a governmental institution. I did some freelance work for a former KZN premier some years ago and it fascinated me how he and his family had chosen to live a much-publicised life to shine as role models for the community they served. This was my only really close association to politics apart from working as a journalist covering a community beat. While at the premier’s office, the premier was a shining star but was lambasted in newspapers about poor service delivery and other issues surrounding his team of 1000. But each day he and his wife would wake up to another day psyching themselves to be positive that they were making a change in the world by being it. The couple are still making waves in government and creating positive change in their own right and so I learnt that it is good to be resilient and if I had believed all the terrible things people had to say about them and his manner of governance in certain newspapers, then I would have been wrong. Why? Because he wouldn’t have consistently been given a good position as an ambassador of the people via government year in and out in various governmental departments. But I digress. Let me discuss my family in government. My younger cousin had spent many years studying towards a degree in mechanical engineering at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. I recall how engrossed she had become in her studies and how we never spent much time with her except for the odd family lunch she would attend in her not-so-free time out of guilt or she was missing us. At a recent family gathering she made time for us because she is now on to her masters in mechanical engineering. I learnt that she had taken a mentorship position at a government department. While in conversation, I put on my journalism cap and asked her questions about her job. I wanted to understand the internal workings of government from someone who actually worked on the inside minus the need for press clearance. I was simply too curious. She was a little apprehensive at first to protect her job, but I quickly reassured her it was more of a natural interest rather than me seeking an angle to lambaste the government through the power of my pen, or shall I say, keyboard. We spoke of how she was in the process of assisting various hospitals with proper cleaning mechanisms, which will cause the hospitals to engage with their staff cleaners in a more satisfying way, with the use of more-advanced laundry equipment. Her mechanical engineering degree has now found her at the forefront of creating change, even if it is through a cleaning laundry operation for state hospitals. After discussing how she would go about addressing the issue of producing mechanisms that would result in non-failure for years to come with the use of these state-of-the-art machinery, she mentioned how difficult it was to have one procedure undertaken. I describe it as difficult because as ordinary citizens we do not understand what sort of responsibility working in government requires. And difficult again because if you are to propose one change factor in the process, it will have to go through various other channels with other experts to ensure they never fail, because their department is representing the people, not just the government. Mistakes from a governmental institution is like the devil coming straight to your door, so they are cautious from start to finish, which is why service delivery takes a while. Let us forget corruption for a while, because it is not a majority’s undertaking. From what I gathered in our hour-long conversation, we need to understand that the government is a caretaker, helping ordinary citizens to ensure we receive only the best out of their presence in society. To be frank, things don’t just happen immediately, as is the case when ordering takeaway food. The various channels are put in place to ensure that ill-fated repercussions are avoided altogether. I’d like to add an age-old saying, which explains better here now: “Rome wasn’t built in a day!” I’ll reiterate: forget the corrupt leaders we have already been lambasting for a while. I wish to bring your attention to the many people who work under them (some corrupt), who are not corrupt, and are doing an honest day’s work, like my dear cousin, who puts her heart and soul into delivering intellectual and academic expertise in her work. You may wonder why I mentioned this topic. Think about the newspapers you have read recently, or pick up a copy of a newspaper you already have. Sift through the pages and you are sure to find an article, or a few, which label governmental departments as providing poor service delivery. The term “poor service delivery” has become a sought-after angle for some media since the advent of government’s social responsibility initiative programmes. While it is great to share insight into how the government is handling the needs of the community, the context of “poor service delivery” as a way to sell more newspapers became a viable angle to follow and as an audience there were fewer stories about what was happening positively, as social responsibility campaigns began rolling in many provinces across the country. Be honest when you read this next line. Do you get a little closer to a person who is speaking about something negative - or positive? We live in a world where tidbits of gossip are far more juicy topics to listen to and engage with, rather than positive ones. This is a main reason why “poor service delivery” has become an everyday word, because as an audience you may have unintentionally been causing its trend by clicking on links that speak of it, or buying newspapers that spread it in headlines. I’ll leave you with wise words I read from a post I saw recently: your vibe attracts your tribe. What vibe do you feel most comfortable with? Is it negative, or bubbly and positive? Now retrospect about your life and everyday happenings. Are you at peace with your self, or are you constantly upset? Vibing with the right people causes a rainbow-like chain reaction so you will never feel forlorn. I say give it a go and be amazed by the results. * Tasnim Langry is a former journalist and now a full-time mother, student and creative writer. POST