Durban - "I'm so sorry. I’m not a person to hurt people. I hope you can forgive me,” motorist Kearabilwe Refilwe Modise-Moloto told the families of two men who died when her car, two years ago, slammed into them. Friends Sumeer Maharaj and Praven Mahabir lost their lives in that tragedy, and Modise-Moloto was last week sentenced to an effective 10 years’ imprisonment after being convicted of culpable homicide by the Durban Magistrate’s Court. Read: Blue Lagoon 'hit and run' driver gets 10 years Found guilty of also failing to perform duties of a driver after an accident as well as reckless and negligent driving, the 40-year-old uMhlanga resident was, however, acquitted on a charge of defeating the ends of justice. Modise-Moloto, who pleaded not guilty, was questioned by magistrate Fariedha Mahomed on the sincerity of her remorse. “Are you apologising just to gain a lighter sentence?” she asked. But Modise-Moloto shook her head in denial, saying she had planned to apologise for a long time, but her legal counsel had advised against it. “I was told not make direct or indirect contact with the families.” Maharaj, 26, and Mahabir, 25, were mowed down by Modise-Moloto on the M4 on May18, 2016, while helping their friend, Junaid Singh, change a flat tyre. Maharaj, a car spares salesman, died at the scene, and Mahabir, a part-time mechanic, succumbed to his injuries the next day. Singh injured an arm. Modise-Moloto chose not to stop at the scene and filed a false accident report in an attempt to repair her black Kia. She was later arrested. A sombre Modise-Moloto was called to the stand by her lawyer, former National Prosecuting Authority boss, advocate Mokotedi Mpshe, to testify during mitigation and aggravation of sentence. She told the court that she lived in uMhlanga with her partner and 16-year-old daughter and had dedicated her life to charity work. She is also the founder of non-profit organisation, Bontlebame, a Grade 12 intervention programme for young girls, and local business Christian Network. But for Mahomed, her crimes “negated all the good she did”. Prosecutor Nkosingiphile Manqele also had trouble accepting Modise-Moloto’s apology, stating it “conflicted” with her plea. “For a person to be sorry, they need to admit to their offence. She pleaded not guilty to her crimes,” Manqele said. “How can you be sorry if you say you’re not guilty?” But Modise-Moloto stood by her plea, claiming that while she was sorry, she was not guilty. “I accept the accident. It happened because I was lost, not that I didn’t have care in driving,” she said. “I apologised because the families have lost loves ones and it would be inhumane to not apologise.” Social worker Thembelihle Shange, who handed in an assessment report on Modise-Moloto, found her to be unwilling to take accountability for her actions and said a suspended sentence would be too lenient. She also mentioned that when interviewing Modise-Moloto, she admitted to not stopping even after going over something that felt like a “cushion or speed hump”. “She told me that she thought it was a type of hijacking or human trafficking tactic and was scared.” Mpshe said his client was a first-time offender who did not need to be “strongly rehabilitated”. He said she was of no danger to her community and there was no need to uproot her from it. “Yes, she has committed an offence, but it’s not an abominable one. Culpable homicide and murder cannot be placed on the same level.” He asked the court for mercy and requested a wholly suspended sentence. Manqele read out victim impact statements including that of Maharaj’s mother Naseema who expressed the pain and anguish she suffered daily. “I remember my son calling out to me that morning, saying: ‘Mummy, please make stew for supper’. Little did I know that would be the last time I’d hear his voice,” Naseema said. While the court accepted Modise-Moloto’s apology, it said two people died because of her negligence. “The court notes the families are suffering immensely. You have taken away all the happiness of the families, they have lost their breadwinners,” Mahomed said. Adding that the court must set an example, she sent Modise-Moloto to prison for 10years and also cancelled her driving licence. Modise-Moloto requested leave to appeal her conviction and sentence, but this was denied. Naseema was overcome with emotion and burst into tears. “I am so happy. “This day has finally come,” she cried. Singh said it had been a long wait, but justice was finally served. Mahabir’s brother, Ashlen, said he thanked God for the positive sentencing. POST