Durban - Determined to break into the music industry, a former Durban couple were amped when they were told they would produce and perform the official theme song for the Miss Eagle SA pageant in Johannesburg later this year. Devendren “Size The Rapper” Pillay, 24, and his fiancée, Anesca “IceNess” Moodley, 22, of Secunda in Mpumalanga, wrote and produced the mainstream hip-hop and new school kwaito song Uzithole Kahle (“Find Yourself”), which is aimed at inspiring young girls and women to recognise and appreciate their self-worth.



Formerly of Phoenix, Pillay said they wanted to empower women to hold onto their dreams regardless of the obstacles and educate young men on how to treat women.



“The pageant was the perfect opportunity to highlight this issue, especially following the many recent deaths of women at the hands of their partners,” said Pillay. 



He described the track as a catchy hip-hop and kwaito song with the chorus performed in isiZulu. 



“The song has various spectrums of colour and dance."



"It is also about how attractive a woman can be without behaving promiscuously and how she must persevere to accomplish her dreams,” he said. 



Moodley, who has a diploma in performing arts and media techniques, said over the past five years it had been difficult to break into the local music industry. 



“It’s a long and stressful journey which is even more of a challenge when you are a female trying to explore a male-dominated industry such as hip-hop. 



“It is also difficult to get your music aired on radio or screened on television when you are an underground rapper,” she said. 



Pillay, whose journey into industry started at the age of five, lip-syncing to his favourite songs and later having the opportunity to perform at events, said he also found it difficult to break into the recording industry. 



“It sometimes feels impossible for an Indian artist to break into this game."



"There is often judgment and biased opinions thrown around."



"We are trying to establish a name, hoping to be discovered by a record label or an entity that shares our vision."



"All we want to do is make music that speaks to people. We are nevertheless slowly becoming a success. The name is growing.”



Under his record company The Bigger Picture Records, he has produced numerous singles, including SwaggerBack with the hip-hop group Pound Gang; Lady Like You, a powerful R&B love song by Jay Tha’truth and NQ, and a hip-hop dance track I.C.M.Y.F.G with Moodley.



He is currently producing scores, sounds and theme songs with Moodley for two upcoming movies. 



“The pageant and movie opportunities have been one of my greatest achievements so far.” 



Moodley hopes to start her own school of drama and fine arts to provide a platform for youngsters. 



Their message to others trying to break into the industry is “always keep going”.



To view their work visit their Facebook pages KXNG Size The Rapper and IceQueen Ness. 



Uzithole Kahle is currently available on iTunes.



POST