Durban - Puvendra Akkiah, the Durban co-ordinator of the official Manchester United Supporters Group in South Africa, will be among the United diehards who will cheer his team at a big screening of the game at Sibaya Casino.



Kick-off is at 6.30pm.



“We have had a few big games on the big screen - the back-to-back games against Liverpool - and this is the third one, so we’re excited about it because it also helps to grow our regional supporters structure,” said Akkiah.



Father-and-son duo, Anesh and Renesh Sukhoo, are ardent United fans and are confident their team will get the silverware.



“We are definitely going to win this game. We have to win."



"This 2017/18 season has been bumpy for us but we have been fighting back and performing even better at every game, so coming second overall is not an option."



"Looking at the way Newcastle United smashed through Chelsea recently, I'm sure we'll thump them as well and close the season off on a good note,” said Anesh, 53.



Renesh, 27, added that although he wanted his team to win, he was more interested in seeing José Mourinho against his old club.



“José is returning with an even better team and both squads are good."



"It could be a great game with lots of fantastic goals and high-powered shots but only one can emerge victorious and I’m expecting that team to be my team.”



Colin Govindarajulu, 40, a Chelsea fan, has already planned to host a braai at home with friends ahead of the game.



“We will take the TV outside and watch while we braai."



"I'm excited because I know we are going to lay our hands on some silverware and I’m looking forward to seeing a good battle with an old coach.”



Mihir Poobalan, 19, said although he was a Chelsea fan, he was ready to see the club’s manager leave. 



“I’m feeling like I’m happy with taking the loss if (Antonio) Conte leaves."



"But if he’s going to leave regardless of the result then I want to win."



"And (midfielder Tiemoue) Bakayoko can leave with him."



"Conte should have been sacked in January when we lost back-to-back against Bournemouth and Watford.”



Saieshan Naicker, 19, said Chelsea had had a good record in cup finals since 2003 and he believed that tradition would continue. 



“Winning the FA Cup is a great motivation for players who are going for the World Cup and those who are thinking about resigning after this terrible season,” he said. 



“Even though we had a terrible season, the team still wants to end it with a win and to let it be a start of a new season."



"I predict a score of 2-0 and it would switch up form and momentum and it would give a great farewell to one of our best managers #thankyouAntonioConte.”



For the Chetty brothers of Newlands West, Tyron, 18, and Branden, 29, the FA Cup final will be the ultimate decider for bragging rights in their home. 



Tyron, a Chelsea supporter, said even though his entire household are United supporters, he had always backed the London team.



His predictions for the final are 2-1 to Chelsea, with Olivier Giroud predicted to score. 



“The game is going to be a smasher, I can just feel it."



"The last time Chelsea won the FA Cup was against Liverpool some time back. We were in the finals last year but unfortunately we lost, but I have a good feeling this year.” 



Branden, a United supporter, said: “We are counting on Marcus Rashford to make us proud.”



Meanwhile, fellow Chelsea supporter Yugeshan Pillay, 25, predicts the scoreline will be 2-0 to Chelsea.



“I think Eden Hazard will be man of the match."



"The last time we went head-to-head with United in the FA Cup final was in 2007 and in the Champions League final in 2008. So we’re looking forward to beating United on Saturday.”



Victory for Chelsea will be their last shot at playing in a continental competition. 



Having finished the league in fifth place, the FA Cup represents a chance at playing in the Uefa Europa League.



The Johannesburg branch of the United supporters group will watch the clash at the Keg & Beagle in Linksfield Road.



POST