Durban - Receiving a medal for faithful and long service at work is a remarkable achievement. And for two police officers, who received accolades at the SAPS training ground in Chatsworth recently, it was a moment they would each cherish. Captain Seelan Pillay and Lieutenant Colonel Daniela Veldhuizen, both 59, were honoured for 30 and 40 years service, respectively. They both have served their country for 38 and 41 years but medals are handed out as per the decade completed. Pillay, of Newlands West, who is part of the SAPS band, said he was honoured to have received the recognition adding that some officers did not last in the force. “They get tired of being in the same position for so long and leave.” He told POST that he remained with SAPS only by a stroke of luck. “I was 21 when I joined the force,” he said. “There was a post available for me in Hillbrow in Johannesburg, but it meant I would have to relocate." "Back then Indian families stuck together and my dad was unhappy at the prospect of me leaving home." "He told me not to go and suggested I continue working with him at his tailoring and fitting business." “When I went to the office to discharge my services, a senior policeman entered and said he wanted to start a brass band." "Back then every race had its own band except for Indians." "I realised that if I joined, I did not have to relocate and could still be a policeman, so I joined.” Pillay, the lead vocalist, is now the only founding member left in the band, which has accompanied artists, including the late Ramesh Hassan and Lloyd Cele of Idols fame. He is gearing for retirement in July. “I may not be with the force but my love for music will surely continue.” Veldhuizen, a popular face at the Chatsworth SAPS, who will retire in October, said the prospect of leaving her colleagues at the station depressed her. “I have always been keen to learn about other cultures and often try to take part in cultural activities, which is why I am referred to as a white Indian and my Indian name is Kalay Nair,” she joked. The mother of two, of Amanzimtoti, said her father was a policeman and she was inspired to join. “I always wanted to make a change and be the change, so I thought why not join." "But of course my parents were wary because I was this tiny 19-year-old girl wanting to take on this dangerous job but they supported me.” In her 41 years of service, she worked as a communications liaison, a public relations officer and a station commander. She is now the head of admission at Chatsworth SAPS. Other officers who received medals included Brigadier Jay Naicker and Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane. The awards were hosted by the former KZN provincial acting commissioner, Major-General Bheki Langa. POST