Durban - For most families, bonding usually happens while talking about the good old days or looking at old photographs but Trisha Adkins and her aunt, Rita Sukhram, bond while catching up on the royal family. “Whenever we are together and if we are bored, we browse the internet and look for documentaries or shows on the royal family."



"But we mainly look for things about Diana and her boys,” admitted Sukhram. 



The 59-year-old of Mthatha, who watched Princess Diana marry Prince Charles on telly in 1981, said she was eager to now watch her son, Prince Harry, marry.



“I was 23 when Diana got married and I watched the full wedding."



"Even when she died, I was glued to the TV for days."



"I don’t know why, but she has made a huge impact in my life and I follow every documentary on her and her kids. 



“I even roped in Trisha."



"She sat with me to watch the coverage of Diana’s 20th death anniversary and if I see any advert on TV about a Diana-related show, I tell Trisha and we view it together."



"I watched Prince William’s wedding to Kate Middleton and now I’m eagerly waiting to see Prince Harry marry."



"I don’t have many expectations but I know whatever Meghan Markle wears, she will look beautiful.”



Added Trisha: “For me, as much as it is about us bonding, I have also taken a liking to this family and it kind of takes me back to the era of kings and queens and basically shows off their traditions and gives us a glimpse into what it is like to be royals. 



“I am most excited to see the bride’s dress as it is always the main attraction and I believe being an actress will help Meghan cope with being royalty as they have similar duties and will have the same kind of pressure from the media.” 



Meanwhile, for 33-year-old Phoenix resident Uraisha Yenketsamy, the royal wedding is at the top of her must-watch list on Saturday. 



“I will be there with my popcorn and coffee, soaking every bit in,” she said.



“Every girl dreams of marrying her Prince Charming and, in Meghan’s case, she is living out that dream."



"I can’t even begin to imagine how life is going to change for her."



From an actress to a real-life princess, it might take some time getting used to but I predict she will adapt just as quickly as Kate.”



Yenketsamy said she, like any typical girl, was waiting to see Markle’s dress.



“Will she go for a slim-fit, figure-hugging silhouette or a majestic ball gown? I guess I will just have to wait and see,” she laughed.



She said she also looked forward to seeing which A-list celebrities were invited for the royal wedding. 



“I wonder who is going to be there. Well, we all know the stunning Priyanka Chopra will attend and I’m sure she’s going to slay as always."



I wonder if Donald Trump was invited,” she joked.



“But on a serious note, I wish the royal couple bounds of blessings and a lifetime of happiness.” 



POST