They were taken on a terrifying 20km ride from Magpie Road to Ntuzuma. Five hijackers pounced on Ashveer Ramdutt, 33; Yasteel Panday, 31; and Kavir Maharaj, 29; while they were socialising with friends near their homes in the cul-de-sac. Ramdutt said he was the “one that got away”. “When I saw them get out of the car, I ran towards another house but one of the hijackers followed me. I kept looking over my shoulder waiting to hear the bang so I could try and dodge the bullet. “He stopped me and pointed a rifle to my head. He searched me and brought me back to lie on the ground with the others,” Ramdutt said. The hijackers took their wallets, Maharaj’s ring and watch. Ramdutt said the hijackers were calm and collected. “They had the guns pressed against the back of our heads. All we could do was wait for them to pull the trigger. Any sudden movements from us meant life or death,” he said. The hijackers forced Panday and Maharaj into Panday’s BMW 528i. One hijacker left in Maharaj’s Audi A4. Both cars were found parked between houses in Ntuzuma. Ish Prahladh, an Iron Force security spokesperson, said it was a professionally executed hijacking and the victims were in the wrong place at the wrong time. “The hijackers were in the area during the course of the day pretending to be buying houses. They must have been scouting. “They had followed another resident into the road to hijack him of his ­Mercedes, but took a wrong turn. He drove off without noticing them,” Prahladh said. Ramdutt was still lying on the floor when the hijackers drove off with his friends. His relatives thought he was bundled into the Audi. Neighbours witnessed the hijacking and called the police and Prahladh who lived in the same road. “The hijackers had a white Ford, which we heard stopped traffic at ­intersections to allow the two hijacked cars to pass through quickly,” Prahladh said. Panday had his head against the back-seat floor, his body squeezed between a hijacker and the seat in an uncomfortable position. A hijacker kept Panday’s head down with the rifle barrel digging into his skin. “Each bump and sharp turn the car took, the gun hurt me more. They kept asking me where the vehicle’s tracking device was,” Panday said. Maharaj had his head down on the floor in the front passenger foot well. The driver had a rifle across his thighs, one hand on the steering and the other on his cellphone. “The driver was on the cellphone asking ‘how many cars they had’. He then asked: ‘What should we do with these two?’ He repeated what the other guy could have said: ‘kill them’,” Maharaj said. Both men said they saw their lives flashing in front of them and were waiting for the bang. They kept thinking how they would be killed and whether they would be shot outside execution-style. Maharaj said the car stopped. They were both assaulted and then pulled out of the car and left at the roadside. Prahladh said the vehicle tracking company found Maharaj and Panday. Both cars were brought back and they have to be refitted with new locks and keys. Captain Nqobile Gwala confirmed that a complaint of a hijacking had been received from Reservoir Hills, but said no case had been opened because the vehicles were recovered in Ntuzuma. “The complainant declined to open a case,” Gwala said. Daily News