Durban “If he did the wrong he needs to face the music.” That’s what the father of a Pietermaritzburg man feels about his son, who is accused of dousing his teenage girlfriend with petrol and setting her alight. Read: Man allegedly sets home, lover alight Jackson Rampersad said the past week had been a nightmare for him and his wife, Prithie. “We are being ridiculed by our community for my son’s alleged actions and it is taking a toll on us. "People are questioning and judging us as though we are responsible for what happened. As parents, this is too much to deal with.” His son Nathan, 32, a grass cutter, appeared in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court last week on a charge of attempted murder. He was remanded in police custody until his next appearance on May 15, when he is expected to make a formal bail application. His 17-year-old girlfriend, who remains in a stable condition at Edendale Hospital, sustained severe burn wounds to her face and hands. Rampersad said when his son was called to the dock he just broke down and cried. “It is hard to see him this way. If he did the wrong, he needs to face the music.” The Pietermaritzburg couple had been renting one of 12 rooms in a house in Northdale for the past eight months. The blaze spread throughout the upper level of the home damaging five other rooms. Five children were treated for smoke inhalation. Landlady Fathima Shaik said she was still traumatised by last week’s incident. “The property was bought by my father in 1989 and given to me. "In 2016, I decided to divide the house and rent it out in order to supplement my income. Prior to the fire I had 11 families staying on the property which worked out to about 54 tenants.” Shaik, a pensioner, said she charged the families R400 per room. “I was not home when the fire started, but when I heard what had happened I was left completely shattered. "My first concern was the girl and her well-being. I interacted with her on many occasions and she seemed pleasant.” Since the fire, Shaik said the tenants have refused to move out of the building because they have nowhere else to go. “I have asked them to leave the building in order for the building inspectors and engineers to come through and assess the damage but they are refusing to budge. Now I have sought assistance from the local authorities for help.” The girl’s family could not be reached for comment. Police spokesperson Lieutenant-Colonel Thulani Zwane said the matter was still under investigation. POST