Durban - The Nelson Mandela Chatsworth Youth Centre, born out of the ashes of the Throb nightclub stampede which claimed the lives of 13 children, continues to serve as a beacon for upliftment in the township. With Madiba often citing the importance of education, the centre strives to promote his view that “education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world”. On Saturday it was abuzz with activity as hundreds of pupils and unemployed youth hoping to access career information and employment opportunities attended the fifth annual Dream Catchers Jobs, Skills and Tertiary Studies Career Expo. About 75 exhibitors, including the University of KwaZulu-Natal, Creative Arts College, Maritime School of Excellence, Mancosa and the eThekwini Fire Department, engaged with the youth and parents on courses and opportunities available at the expo, which was sponsored by Transmed Shipping. The centre’s programme co-ordinator, Clive Pillay, said the youth in Chatsworth faced the lack of career guidance, funds to further their tertiary education and employment opportunities. “Many schools do not facilitate career guidance programmes, so the youth who attend these expos garner the expertise from different private and mainstream higher learning institutes and organisations about making the right career path decisions." "They are also made aware of some of the scarce skills that the country requires." “Many youth are also unaware of the tertiary requirements." "The Central Applications Office are at the expo and have provided insight into how these children can register or apply to universities.” The centre, he added, also offered skills development programmes throughout the year and they planned to expand the expo to other areas including Wentworth. Armed with brochures from various exhibitors, eager youth and their parents moved from station to station to consume as much knowledge as possible. Zahara Qadri, 17, of Mobeni Heights, showed a keen interest in nursing. “From a young age, I wanted to help those who cannot help themselves." "I am looking into the possibility of studying nursing or pharmacy,” said the matric pupil at Southlands Secondary School. Tehilla Isaac, 14, a Grade 9 pupil at Kharwastan Secondary School, said the expo would help her make the right course selection for Grade 10. “I would like to study criminology and work in the navy, military or police force." "I want to serve and protect my country as well,” she said. The Sivananda Sunlit Path programme caught the attention of 14-year-old Megan Govender, who enjoys community upliftment projects. “I have admired the work of the Divine Life Society and commend them for helping others." "However, I am also creative and have thought about studying graphic design,” said the Grade 9 pupil at Southlands Secondary School. The centre was opened in 2001 in memory of 13 teenagers killed in the Throb nightclub tragedy the previous year. The stampede erupted after a teargas canister was thrown on to the club’s dance floor. POST