Letter - I am a Hindu by birth, have a lot of faith and love my religion. However, I have noticed that many Hindus are converting to Christianity. I was taught all religions are to be respected and are good. Mostly younger people are converting. I have found, on doing research, the following reasons: * The pastors/church members are available 24 hours to their members. * Churches embrace anyone who goes into their church. * Members are not ostracised because of how they dress. * There are counsellors who avail themselves for problems regarding teenagers, marriages, drugs etc. * Anyone can walk in at any time and pray, irrespective of whether they wear jeans, skirts, dresses or even shorts. * Christians are not ashamed to pray anywhere, and always talk about their religion. * They support each other better than the member’s own family. * Churches have social activities keeping families happy and youth occupied. * Pastors don’t expect money for the services, members donate to the church. Regarding temples, in contrast, please if this is not your temple then don’t be offended: * The priest must be paid every time you need advice, for example, the time to do a prayer, etc. * You are treated according to how much you pay. * The temple is locked if you just decide to go and pray, for example, on a Sunday morning, and you have to then wait for someone to open it. * When you do go inside, the gods have metal chains in front with a sign, "don’t touch the murthis". These murthis are not the gods themselves but images to remind us of who we are praying to, so touching their feet will not harm anyone. * If you go and pray im­mediately after work, the ladies at the temple comment about what you are wearing, a dress/skirt/pants etc. The dress is often too short (even though knee-length), according to their old, narrow minds. * The priest tells you to dress properly (mind you, you have decent clothes on, just not a Punjabi or sari). * If you go to three different temples to open the book, the priests will tell you three different prayers to do according to their temple preferences. * The price of a Navagraha prayer at one temple is R50, yet R200 at another. * The prayer lists are expensive and most of the items are not even used. * The price of butter ghee is around R249 and that of camphor about R58 a box, and is required for most prayers. * Temple members/part of temple group treat you differently if you are new; stand in front to do every prayer during auspicious time, not giving others a chance. Stop creating rules that only serves the sole purpose of your selfishness. If you forget something in a prayer, God won’t punish you. God doesn’t punish anyone if you are doing a prayer sincerely from your heart. If I need to go to the temple, it must be at a time when it is open, and when I go “dressed up”, when the priest is there and when those old ladies don’t look and gossip. Start promoting Hinduism. Have you, or do you, know any Christian converting to Hinduism? But I’m sure you know many Hindus converting to Christianity. One last point for Christians to know: Jesus saves everyone as a good God, not just Christians. Jesus didn’t teach anyone to be biased, but to love all irrespective of religion. It is sad that people get upset and angry, then convert. I really don’t have the time for petty issues when I want to go to a temple and pray. You can comment on my dressing, but remember some people work and don’t have the luxury of time. Faith is not about how one dresses. I am born a Hindu and will die a Hindu. Other Hindus who are frustrated with their temple members’ behaviour; just ignore those critics and continue your prayers. Don’t convert because of their behaviour. Nowhere in the scripture does it say women must wear a sari, Punjabi or a long dress. I think people going to temples must stop looking and start praying. There is a lot we can learn from the Christians to strengthen our religion Hinduism, which is one of the oldest religions in the world. POST