Durban - The historic Natest Primary School in Mount Edgecombe is celebrating the establishment of a science and technology centre that will enable its pupils, mostly from poor communities, to finally become computer literate. The centre is equipped with 30 computers donated by Albaraka Bank in a project co-ordinated by Friends Without Borders, an NGO made up of mainly former pupils of the school. Natest, which began in 1966 with donations by the sugar cane workers of the area, launched the centre last Saturday. “I am confident that the founding fathers of this erstwhile institution are smiling smiles of joy, pride and admiration. Your achievement only testifies and adds credence to their vision of pooling their meagre resources to establish this iconic institution some 52 years ago,” said regional education representative Siva Subrayen. He thanked the “pillar and backbone” of Natest - Friends Without Borders. “As sons and daughters of this community you chose not to forget your humble beginnings despite your personal successes in life." "We need more people like you.” Subrayen said the school now had a prized educational asset to be used for the upliftment of the community in a challenging world. Aphiwe Mkhize, in Grade 7, said most of the pupils come from disadvantaged backgrounds and when it was announced that they were to be blessed with a classroom of computers they were excited. “We are not computer literate." "As we move into higher grades, computer literacy will enable us to choose courses that will help us go into science and technology fields,” Aphiwe said, “and maybe, be the next Mark Shuttleworth, Steve Jobs or Bill Gates”. In their prayers the pupils thanked the sponsors in spreading the message of love and ubuntu. The chairperson of Friends Without Borders, Vincent Govender, urged other communities to take a leaf out of this endeavour and do the same for pupils all over the country. Natest’s principal Mac Thilakdhari said the absence of the kind of finances that other schools are blessed with should never compromise the standard of education, and service, his team provides to pupils, many of whom “are the poorest of the poor”. “I’m extremely positive that this sponsorship will endorse the mantra we are instilling in our learners - that they can achieve anything they persevere towards if they are disciplined and work hard." "I’m also certain that this sponsorship will inspire our learners, and educators, to greater heights, and it will have a positive impact on teaching and learning, and the general ethos of our school.” POST