Durban - Growing up in each others homes, playing games and sport on the road, and attending school together, are just some of the fond memories the former and current residents of Mobeni Heights will recall at their inaugural reunion, at the community-built Doorgha Hall on Saturday. Mobeni Heights, previously referred to as Unit 4 of Chatsworth, boasts rich historical landmarks, including the century year old Shri Luxmi Narayan Temple and Excelsior Primary School built in 1969. It is the only school in the area and caters for disadvantaged pupils from uMlazi, the Joe Slovo informal settlement and surrounding areas. The Mobeni Heights Civic Association, which was established more than five decades ago to assist residents address various issues with the municipality, continues to play a pivotal role in the upliftment and enrichment of the community. Seeing the need for past neighbours and friends to reminisce about the good old days, former resident, Advocate Ronnie Pather, 55, of Centurion, Gauteng, initiated the reunion and a planning committee was formed last year. “I joined the Facebook group Mobeni Heights Memories and was moved by all the posts, by old and current residents, about being born and raised in this area." "We decided we needed to host a get together and the planning commenced earlier this year,” said Pather. There will be a bring and braai, food stalls, music and a healthy dose of banter between old and new friends, some of whom now reside in Johannesburg, Cape Town and New Zealand. Pather, the National Prosecuting Authority's director of employee relations, moved to the area in 1968. He said his fondest memory was of the camaraderie that existed among residents. “As children we would visit any of our friends' homes, at any time, and their parents would take good care of us, offering us meals and something to drink." "Our parents did not mind, as there was unity amongst them and each parent took care of the other children.” He continued: “At the time there were no sports grounds, so we played tennis and enjoyed go-karting and skating on the roads." "One of the best times was walking together to Excelsior Primary School." “Although it was a distance from my home in Flamboyant Avenue, we saved our bus fare to buy treats at the tuckshop." "We did not worry about the distance because we were talking and joking the whole way.” The father of one said, after getting married in 1994, he relocated to Gauteng but dearly missed his childhood home. “When the opportunity arose to have the reunion, I was excited to reconnect with old friends." "It would also be nice to hear how everyone has been doing over the years." "There are many of us that still keep in contact, such as my close school friends, Naveen Rajballi, Rakesh Panday and Tony Naidoo, who resides in New Zealand." "We communicate via social media or telephone calls and when possible, go out to restaurants or visit each others' homes." He continued: “There have been many well-known people who come from Mobeni Heights. They include Professor Phoobalan Pillay, emeritus Professor at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, singer Natalie Rungan, comedienne and actress Jailoshini Naidoo, and international singer Shashika Mooruth, who will be attending the reunion.” Mooruth, who writes a monthly Desi Track column in POST on her life in India, will receive the SAMA International Achiever Award on June 2, at Sun City. Mobeni Heights Civic Association chairperson and accountant, Devan Pillay, 65, who has lived in the area for the past 25 years, said the reunion would also help the association raise funds for the Doorgha Hall's upkeep and maintenance. “One of my fondest memories has been working with the community during the first democratic elections and being part of a committee that made it possible for houses to be built for those from the Joe Slovo informal settlement, who have become part of our community.” Pioneer resident, Pat Naidoo, 63, of Primrose Terrace, said although he did not spend time socialising with neighbours when he first moved to the area in 1977 due to work constraints, he always felt a sense of unity. “My family had moved from Clairwood and purchased a piece of land to build a home. During that time I was running our family business, so I would leave for work early in the morning and returned late at night. But I recall the area was always bustling with activity. “It was only in 2011, when I went into semi-retirement and crime was becoming an issue, that a neighbourhood watch was formed and I had become more active in the community.” For Devika Naidoo, 55, of Malvern, the area holds many precious memories - from attending primary school, riding their bicycles, playing badminton and "house-house" game, as well as being the first batch of students to learn Indian classical dance, under Kumari Ambigay. “Those were the best days,” said Naidoo, who added that her mother, the late Atheeammah Naidoo, was the president of the Mobeni Heights Women's Group, which was founded in 1968. “She was instrumental in the establishment of a nursery school in 1968. I recall them hosting the most beautiful Christmas parties for the children.” The women's group continues to play a pivotal role in the community - hosting regular feeding schemes, offering food relief and uplifting the community through charitable work. POST