Durban - A double thumbs-up and a broad smile - that’s what killer Dhayalan “Tyrone” Pillay showed the family and friends of the woman he shot to death after being spurned. And while it left a bitter taste in their mouths, they were happy that Pillay, 33, was sentenced to an effective 25 years in prison by the Durban High Court on Monday. Read: Ex boyfriend pleads guilty to shooting woman outside workplace Pillay pleaded guilty to shooting ex-girlfriend Annelene Pillay, 26, a customer care controller for a shipping and logistics company, at her workplace in Jacobs, Durban, on November29, 2016. He also pleaded guilty to ­being in possession of a firearm without having a licence. The Croftdene, Chatsworth, man told the court, via his counsel, Patrick Mkhumbuzi, that he’d had a 10-year relationship with Annelene, and shot her out of anger when she stopped taking his calls and started ignoring him. He also claimed he was contacted by a woman about Annelene having relations with a married man. He said this angered him and he had wanted to confront her about it. CCTV footage of Pillay gunning down Annelene as she exited her workplace on South Coast Road went viral on social media and led to a public outcry, with many people calling for Pillay to be jailed for life. Prosecutor Kelvin Singh used the video footage as evidence and played the tape in court. He also interviewed forensic pathologist Zipho Zephu Hina, who examined Annelene’s body, and spoke about the rise of femicide in society. Singh later showed evidence that Pillay had last contacted ­Annelene on November2 that year, about a month before she was killed. Judge Jacqui Henriques found Pillay to be remorseful, and highlighted that as much as the case had widespread media attention, the law did not serve public opinion or emotion, but hard facts. Pillay was sentenced to 20 years for murder and five years for the possession of a firearm. The sentences are to run separately. Walking towards the court’s holding cells, Pillay smiled and gave a thumbs-up to more than 25 of Annelene’s friends and family members who packed the courtroom on Monday. This, the family said, indicated that Pillay was not remorseful. However, they said they were pleased that justice had been served. Celebrating outside court, Annelene’s parents, Lincoln and Charmaine, thanked the investigating officer from Brighton Beach SAPS and prosecutor Singh for fighting a strong case. “I am so happy at how things turned out. Twenty-five years is ­indeed a long time to serve. The investigating officer and the prosecutor did a splendid job. Without them, we would never have had success in this.” Elated at the positive sentencing, childhood friend Lee-Anne Naidoo said she was happy with the verdict. Lovingly referring to her friend as Anna, Naidoo said she was known to be full of fun and energy. “He took away someone who had so much to live for. Now all we have to hold on to are her memories.” Annelene’s neighbour, Sooraya Naidoo, said it was a day to rejoice, and also spoke fondly of the deceased. “She was indeed a beautiful child. A person to lift up your spirits whenever you were down. “Whenever she would see me, the first thing she would do was hug me and kiss me.” Annelene’s aunt, Mariam Ramjhan, said Pillay deserved to rot in jail for what he did. POST