Durban - While there is a dire need for housing developments in Phoenix, residents are not prepared to have their playgrounds torn down to make way for them. Since 2013, residents of Grove End have stood firm on this decision and have fought off two prospective developers from building homes on the playground. Resident Richard Pillay, the chairperson of the Concerned Residents Forum, said that in 2013 developers from Woodglaze Trading, owned by businessman Jay Singh, had come out to view the playground, which was also referred to as a play lot. “Once word got out that a property developer was viewing the play lot, residents united and signed a petition to stop the company from building. "Since then the residents have taken it upon themselves to ensure the playground is maintained.” Pillay, who has been living in the area for 20 years, said a few months ago four men from another property development company came out to view the land. “When residents enquired as to who they were, the men refused to give their names and said they were looking to build houses. "We again contacted the municipality and found out that the plot of land was not sold but still owned by the Parks Department.” He said residents would not allow the playground to be torn down for housing as it was important for children in the community to have a space to play. “Some parents cannot afford for their children to go to parks away from their homes and with this in mind, residents have banded together to ensure the playground is in a good condition to be used.” Pillay said they ensured the grass was cut, and broken facilities like the swings and other play items fixed and painted. “We erected a garden in the park to make it more welcoming for the community. Now residents can have birthday parties and picnics. Previously the municipality would not even maintain the park.” He said the grass was always overgrown and was a haven for criminals to hide and drug users to sleep in. “The reason why our play lots are being taken over by property developers is because the municipality is not maintaining it for our children. "These kids either play on the road, sit in their homes playing video games or watch television. If the municipality ensures these parks are attractive for families, we will not have these issues.” Pillay said that while they understood people in Phoenix were desperate for homes, it should not be at the cost of playgrounds. “The municipality needs to allocate space that does not infringe on the community. We will not stop fighting for this space, and we will not allow property developers to take over our area.” Minority Front councillor Jonathan Annipen said he had taken the matter up with the community services committee and the human settlements committee. “The Parks and Recreation unit is at present seeking clarity from the municipality's real estate unit to confirm the status of the park and if it has been sold and to whom. The council's regulations for re-zoning have not been followed if the park had been sold.” He said that while developers have been seen on the site, the community could and must object to any form of development. “The fact that civil society has been overlooked in this process is brazen corruption and must be met with the scorn and contempt it deserves.” The head of Parks, Recreation and Culture, Thembinkosi Ngcobo, could not confirm at the time of publication if the park had been sold. With World Play Day commemorated yesterday, Early Childhood Development expert at Afrika Tikkun, Vanessa Mentor, said: “Physical play leads to active lifestyles and healthy bodies. "This year's theme of ‘free play’ is very fitting because play time is when children feel the most free. Playtime is their time.” eThekwini Municipality has not answered specific questions relating to play lots. Woodglaze Trading could not be reached for comment. POST