Durban - “They have chopped the hand that fed them and instilled a sense of mistrust and anxiety regarding our safety.” This was part of the emotional testimony Dr Yuvashnee Govender gave during the sentencing of three men accused of strangling her 69-year-old mother, Virathapushanam (Vee) Govender, during a robbery at her farm in Spioenkop near oThongathi (Tongaat) last month. Her father, Steve Govender, 72, was assaulted and stabbed seven times in the head. He survived the attack. Michael Mayela, 21, Nkosinathi Ngcobo, 20, and Odwa Zide, 21, pleaded guilty to murder, two counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances, attempted murder and being in possession of an unlicensed firearm. Durban regional magistrate Anand Maharaj sent them to prison for an effective 40 years. Govender described her mother as an amazing community member who contributed to society by actively taking part in the Isenembe Temple, women’s circle and as a saleswoman in the local market provided employment for over 30 households in Durban and Johannesburg. “She assisted the poor by giving them extra vegetables or making it cheaper. My mom’s personality can be summed by the words - honest and God fearing,” she said. “As a mother she has instilled these values in her children, an honour which we will continue to carry out.” Govender said it broke her heart when an honest person like her mom had to lose her life in the most heinous and cruel way. “The incident has shocked the community. It is for this reason that many professionals, including my colleagues, have emigrated.” She said this crime had shocked every farmer who is now concerned about their own safety. Maharaj sentenced the accused to 25 years for murder, 20 years for two counts of robbery, five years for attempted murder and three years for unlawful possession of a firearm. Some of these will run concurrently, giving an effective sentence of 40 years. Maharaj described the accused’s conduct as “cold, callous and nothing short of evil”. “The victim and deceased were elderly persons in their twilight years. The deceased was entitled of the right to live out her life naturally. The crimes were planned and premeditated. “They posed no threat to any of you and could easily have been overpowered by the three of you and subdued without you having to resort to violence against them.” He commended the police for the swift arrests. In their guilty pleas, the accused stated they had planned the robbery a day before. Zide was familiar with the place as he knew the layout of the house as he had previously worked for the couple, as a part-time gardener. On April 18, they went to the couple’s home at 5pm and gained entry by jumping over the electric fence. POST