Opinion - The recent string of teen suicides in our community should set alarm bells ringing across the nation. Too many promising and talented youth have “diced with death” and have lost the challenge. We cannot remain mum while teenagers simply disappear into hopelessness and reject the possibility of a helping hand or a listening ear. It is often only in the aftermath that we tend to reach out to those afflicted by the “discombobulating” complications of life - many a time it is too little, too late. It is true that if we take the time to invest in the interests of our loved ones, our children and our society, we will be able to circumvent many fatal outcomes. This I know from my own experience of attempting suicide. If I knew then what I know now, I would have made so many different choices. A major myth about morbid talk and genuine suicide attempts is that teenagers are classified as “seeking attention” as opposed to making “a plea for help”. Young people who speak about killing themselves are most times canned as overly theatrical - and we are inclined to adopt the “obviously they don't mean it” mentality. However, any warning sign of suicide should never be dismissed, even from one who “cries wolf”. It is often tempting to stop taking such children seriously, given the emotional blackmail and hostage mentality that comes with it, but one can never discount that since the threat has surfaced, the idea remains a possibility in the psyche of an individual, and one moment of weakness can give rise to disastrous ramifications. It's imperative that we react to the dangers of suicide and any warning signs in a critical and considerate manner. While it may not inevitably mean that a child is going to attempt suicide, it's a gamble you simply cannot afford. When addressing teen suicide, it helps to deliberate on what influences a young person to consider suicide. It is safe to assume most young people who try to kill themselves, or who die by suicide, have an overwhelming sense of pressure, hopelessness, and feel rejected in some way or the other. One must consider things that increase the probability that a child will engage in suicidal behaviour, but also one must find protective measures or things that reduce the risk. If the risk factors outweigh the protective measures, then we have cause for extreme concern. On the other hand, even with a limited feature of risk factors and a lot of protective factors, constant interaction to help build a strong bond and trust with young people is still necessary. The death of a family member, a friend or a pet often exacerbates feelings of insecurity or the loss of will to fight or live. Separation or a divorce of parents, or a breakup, can also be perceived as an intense loss. It is therefore critical that there are notable family support structures so that teenagers know that the separation or divorce is not their fault, and if there is personal and emotional trauma that they may be facing, they will not be judged or scorned for making poor choices. Fear is often the leading cause of teen suicide as teenagers feel unable to open up to their parents or seniors. Sometimes emotional strain and untreated emotional trauma can lead to psychiatric disorders, particularly a mood disorder like depression, or a trauma and stress-related disorder. It is therefore imperative to dismiss any stigma attached to depression or any form of mental strain. This may prevent a teen from seeking professional and medical assistance. Previous suicide attempts increase the risk of another suicide attempt, hence regular interactions with the individual and the individual's circle of friends are non-negotiable. While we must be careful not to steal the person's sense of independence, it is important to maintain a constant caring approach so that they are aware of help being readily available. Alcohol and other substance use can result in serious mental disorders. This can lead to getting into trouble at work, school or with a partner, which can ultimately result in engaging in a lot of high-risk behavioural patterns. Struggling with sexual orientation in an environment that is not respectful or accepting of that orientation remains a mammoth stumbling block to suicide rehabilitation. The issue is never whether a child is gay or lesbian, but rather whether he or she is struggling to come out in an unsupported environment. The thought of humiliation, rejection and abandonment can literally be the tipping point. Support structures and dialogue, without enforcing a particular form of thinking, can help reduce a tense discussion. A family history of suicide is something that can be really significant and concerning, as is a history of domestic violence, child abuse or neglect. There shouldn't be an absence of collective support. Any person who doesn't feel encouragement from a significant adult or friends stands the risk of becoming so isolated that suicide seems to present the only way out of one's problems. Bullying has featured so prominently in our schools recently, it is almost unprecedented. We know that being a victim of bullying is a risk factor, but what we don't know is that there's also evidence that children who present characteristics of bullying others may be at an increased risk for suicidal behaviour themselves. Exposure to means like firearms and pills or to conversations relating to suicide and the details about it can significantly impact young minds. One of the things we know is that the more hopeless and helpless people feel, the more likely they are to choose to hurt themselves or end their lives. Similarly, the sense of guilt or shame, or if they feel worthless or have low self-esteem, and the stigma associated with asking for help doesn't make it any easier on the vulnerable youngster. We often ask ourselves: “What about protective factors, things that can mitigate the risk of engaging in suicidal behaviour? Do they exist?" The answer is an emphatic yes! We must constantly promote good problem-solving skills. Youngsters who are able to see a problem and figure out effective ways to manage it and can resolve struggles in non-violent ways are at a lesser risk. The stronger the positive influences youngsters have of their families, of their friends, and of people in the community, the less likely they are to harm themselves. Partly because they feel valued and supported, and partly because they have individuals to turn to when they're stressed and feel really tested. There are effective care mechanisms for mental, physical, and substance-use disorders. Good medical and mental health care involves on-going affiliations, making one feel connected to professionals who take care of them and are available to them. Warning signs of suicide to be alert to include changes in personality or behaviour that might not be obviously related to suicide. When a teenager becomes sad, more withdrawn, more irritable, anxious, tired, or apathetic - things that used to be fun aren't fun anymore - you should be concerned. Changes in sleep patterns or eating habits can also be red flags. Acting irrationally or irresponsibly is also a warning sign. If a teen starts making really poor choices or starts doing things that are harmful, like bullying or fighting, it can be a sign. And, finally, if a child is talking about dying, you should always pay attention. “I wish I was dead.” “I just want to vanish.” “Maybe I should jump off a cliff.” “Maybe I should shoot myself.” “You'd all be better off if I wasn't around.” When you hear this kind of talk, it's important to take it completely seriously - even if you can't imagine your child meaning it, always take the time to find out. * Jonathan Annipen is a national executive committee member of the Minority Front. POST