Tribute - Former POST columnist and reporter Aldrin Naidu was larger than life in his own unassuming way. As news of his death on April 25 spread, the messages of love and appreciation of his many talents flooded social media. Aldrin mentored journalists, actors, and comedians and enjoyed working with youngsters with potential in communities throughout the country. His journey into journalism was as colourful as his life - and his socks - sometimes he never wore them, just keeping them in his pocket. He was quirky and loveable. As a 7-year-old, he would hold an audience captive by reading from the Bible, praying for ill family members, who remarkably felt better afterwards. Growing up in Sydenham and Phoenix, we dubbed him “Pastor John” but the priesthood was not to be his calling. We were baptised together at the former University of Durban-Westville pool, an institution at which he later went on to be a big fish. After school Aldrin wanted to study law but ended up becoming a popular figure at UDW’s Department of Drama and Asoka Theatre. He began writing for POST around 1989, focusing on entertainment, and later news, combining this with his passion for the arts. A man of many talents, Aldrin was a television presenter, renowned playwright, journalism lecturer, actor, writer, and above all, a brother with a heart of gold, always sharing. Yet his leadership qualities and beautiful disposition was shaped in church as a youngster. Aldrin was never shy and would sing or participate in Sunday school events, plays. At school, he was a natural leader, becoming SRC president at Stanmore Secondary in 1983, campaigning by singing to voters dressed as Boy George. His passion for the arts saw him redefine community theatre in the 1990s, working with unheralded talents, many of whom became household names today. Aldrin’s first major play, The Undecided Voter, supported by the ANC and watched by former President Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Mac Maharaj and others, set him on the road to a varied career. His last production X se! You Ain’t Seen Nothing Yet recently featured at the iZulu Theatre at Sibaya Casino. But many will remember him for Mandrax Muniamma, the colourful song and dance production about a 50-year-old granny jailed for smuggling 50000 mandrax tablets in a suitcase. The South African National Editors’ Forum referred to Aldrin as a mentor. A number of journalists spoke of how upon entering the profession, he willingly assisted in their progress. Some spoke fondly about how he helped open doors for them. In Phoenix and Benoni, he worked with youngsters, urging them to express themselves on the stage. He loved people and nobody has a harsh word to say about Aldrin. One of his many mentees, Sershen Naidoo, who is like a brother to the Naidu siblings, remembers, “Aldrin would give his last cent to anyone who asked. He almost always gave more than he had.” Over the past eight years, Aldrin’s health began to deteriorate but his mind was sharp and dreams never dimmed. On February 26, the day before he went into hospital he was constantly on the phone, talking to various people about a nationwide Mandela Day youth event he was planning. Aldrin was laid to rest at West Park Cemetary, Randburg, on April 26. He is survived by his wife Nazarene Khan, daughter La’Mia Ruby Naidu, three siblings, family and friends. Aldrin’s impact, as shown by the countless messages, and offers to host a memorial, speaks to the positive influence he has had. My grief has been dwarfed by the messages of shock and sympathy putting into perspective his wonderful legacy. Aldrin believed in people, sometimes more than in himself in recent years, slowing down through illness. We have lost another brother but the world has lost a brilliant mind with a beautiful smile and a caring soul. * Edwin Naidu is Aldrin Naidu’s brother. Family and friends are planning a memorial in Durban in June. POST