Durban - His front yard may well be Durban’s iconic Mini Town, but the occupant of the beachfront flat that overlooks it is larger than life. Ahmed Vallymahomed, known to most simply as AV, rubs shoulders with diplomats, royalty and ordinary folk alike as he quietly builds a reputation as an advocate for social cohesion, nation building, religious tolerance and social upliftment. Recognised with several awards for his efforts, including being awarded an honorary doctorate in humanities by the Commonwealth University’s London-based graduate school recently, Vallymahomed, 72, will never forget his roots. “I am a town boy born and brought up in the streets,” he told POST as he relaxed in his plush two-and-a-half bedroom flat. With wives Rashida, who sat near him on the brown suede couch, and Fatima who was busy in the kitchen, Vallymahomed said that was why he would never trade his home for another. “There were times when my kids were older and I considered moving out, but I realised it would not be the same,” he said. “I lived in Prince Street and spent a lot of time in Queen Street and Alice Street. I realised it would not be the same to leave. "I wouldn’t get to patronise the hawkers or have my favourite meal - any vegetable meal - from Patels.” His home is both minimalistic and luxurious, with the hallway showing off Vallymahomed’s awards, including a Nadaraja Award and Skisa Lifetime Achievement Award. Last year he was recognised with a lifetime achievement award by the US-based Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin. The modern interior came when the flat was refurbished and redecorated in a project he undertook with Fatima. “Funny enough, they say women are the home makers but we took it on together as our own project,” he explained. “Four years ago we stripped the flat and renovated; we replaced the wooden floors with tiles and made the bathroom more modern and painted the walls and got in new furniture and rearranged things. "Since I am a public figure we entertain a lot of visitors so we felt it necessary to do the upgrades and changes,” he said as he bit into a guava, one of his favourite fruit. For Vallymahomed, home is where the heart - and tummy - is. “No matter where I am, almost every meal is at the table at home. Very rarely I won’t be home for a meal,” he said. “I plan my day out in a way that no matter where I am, during lunch or supper, I am close to home and we eat together. "In the mornings, I watch every news channel trying to catch up with the events of the world so I am clued up and ready to take on any conversation.” He is quick to soften at the mention of his nine grandchildren. “I love my grandchildren to bits. I am regularly visited by them and I put up with their unreasonable demands. They are my joy and pride and they fascinate me. “They are also super proud of their old grandad, or pa as they call me. My eldest is a 25-year-old chartered accountant and my second eldest is at Stellenbosch University to study in the CA field as well.” Vallymahomed, who is the chairman of the Juma Musjid (Grey Street Mosque), is active on the social scene, last year attending several events, including the World Tamil Economic Conference in Durban. Told once that he’s an honorary Hindu, he replied: “I am honoured to be one. Humanity is the religion of God.” His day begins early as he makes his way to all the organisations he is involved with. “I go to three mosques, 17cemeteries, the 1860 Documentation Centre, the Dennis Hurley Centre and my office in the CBD where all the paperwork is done. I feed the destitute that go to the Dennis Hurley Centre for food every day,” he said. Although his day is jampacked, Vallymahomed ensures he is near a mosque during prayer time. “When it is time to pray, I will visit any of the three mosques I am a part of and I will do my daily prayer. Most of the time I am praying for humanity. It’s what I enjoy doing.” Even while at home, Vallymahomed is called upon to arbitrate on matters affecting his community. “Ninety percent of my Saturday and Sunday is reserved for family but sometimes I will be sitting with people to do counselling,” he said. “I am grateful to my family for being so understanding of my work demands. They allow me to serve humanity. "I always believe you cannot expect someone to do something for you, you have to go out and do it and that’s what I am doing. “I believe everyone is equal and no one should be treated better than any other. The Qur’an says everyone is entitled to dignity and honour and I pray every day that people get and give mutual respect to all.” POST