Durban - Instead of celebrating Mother’s Day, Angie Padayachee spent the day mourning the loss of her only daughter who was killed in a car crash along with two other family members and a friend on Saturday evening. Hannah Padayachee, 20, her aunt Dolly Govender, 55, cousin Shanelle Govender, 23, and family friend, Linton Mahommed, 26, all from Pieter­maritzburg, perished in a crash on the N3 between Lynfield Park and Ashburton, while returning home after a day at the beach. 



The fifth passenger, Charlane Govender, who was engaged to Mahommed, is fighting for her life in hospital. 



Hannah’s father, pastor Krubin Padayachee, said that an hour after speaking to his daughter he received a call from a relative informing him about the crash.



“I rushed to the scene and saw the wreckage."



"I was told a bus veered off the road and collided with the Nissan Sentra they had been travelling in."



"They all died at the scene except for Charlane, who suffered a severe head injury.”



Padayachee, the head pastor at Alltime Harvest Ministries, said his sister-in-law Dolly had planned the trip to the beach in Winklespruit and had invited Hannah. 



He said his daughter, a third-year law student at Varsity College, had a bright future.



“Hannah was always a high achiever in every aspect of her life and that was something we all admired in her."



"She was the head girl at Heather Secondary School and was presented with the dux award in matric."



"Hannah was involved in charity work and was part of the worship and youth team in church.”



Padayachee said he was trying to be strong for his wife, Angie, and sons. 



“Hannah was our youngest child and only daughter."



"My wife is not coping and on Mother’s Day we had to sedate her.”



He said Dolly was like a second mother to Hannah. 



“She was a single mother who had the warmest and most bubbly personality."



"Despite any challenges thrown her way she always put a smile on her face."



"She ran a part-time catering business with Shanelle, who had dreams of becoming a nurse."



"Her passion was to help those in need.”



Mahommed, said Padayachee, worked in the motor industry and was a talented musician.



“Charlane and Mahommed have been together for five years and they planned to get married next year."



"They were both excited about starting their lives together."



"Now we are praying that Charlane pulls through despite the seriousness of her injuries.”



A joint funeral for Dolly, Hannah and Shanelle was held on Tuesday and Mahommed’s funeral was expected to take place today. 



Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele said a case of culpable homicide was being investigated by Camperdown SAPS. 



POST