Durban - In a bid to bring a smile to thousands of underprivileged children, the Caring Sisters Network (CSN) works tirelessly with rural communities to help raise them out of the darkness of poverty. For the past eight years, the non-profit, philanthropic women’s organisation, which is based in Overport, has placed focus on relief, social welfare, women and youth empowerment and education, with special attention to the uplifting of township madressas and schools. 



The founder and chairperson, Yasiera Suliman, said 53% of children under the age of five in South Africa died every day primarily due to severe malnutrition. 



“Malnutrition does not only threaten children’s survival, it undermines their ability to thrive and achieve their full potential."



"Our organisation advocates community-based support via educational campaigns and social assistance, and feeding schemes within these schools and madressas.” 



During the holy month of Ramadan, CSN will embark on its signature project, the Eid Smile Campaign.



“We joined forces with the South African Muslim Network and started the project in KwaMashu, about eight years ago, to feed the local Muslims during Ramadan and provide transport to mosque attendees for prayer. 



“Since inception, it has developed into one of our major milestones."



"The project started off with 50 recipients receiving Eid gift hampers and has now grown to about 3500 recipients in total." 



“We have recently completed our Eid Shoe Box for Syria campaign in partnership with the Al Quds Foundation, where members of the public were consulted to donate shoe boxes with gifts to the children of Syria for Eid.” 



CSN is involved in educational and empowerment initiatives for women and youth. 



“Our ‘Readers Are Leaders’ campaign involves the community, who assist in collecting second hand books, donated to impoverished schools for their libraries."



"In addition, the organisation has donated mini libraries comprising new bookshelves, as well as age appropriate educational literature and story books.” 



Other projects include raising funds towards the installation of hand pumps and temporary latrines around the world, and contributing towards a medical aid day that assisted the Rohingya people with access to medical check-ups and eye care.



“A child’s smile is the most precious gift we can receive."



"Therefore the organisation goes above and beyond to ensure this is possible.” 



POST