Durban - A drug den similar to the notorious “Barnyard” in Northcroft, Phoenix, has popped up in Eastbury, another Phoenix suburb, just metres from a temple and church. Residents fear for their safety as the illicit activity has attracted more than 100 drug users. 



Temple devotees noticed something amiss recently while performing prayers at a nearby river.



They saw a tin structure hidden in a bush. 



When they took a closer look, they saw a number of young, “untidy and unkempt” men standing near the structure.



As devotees monitored the area, they found that drugs were being sold and the users living in the bush. 



Since then, devotees say they have been harassed by the drug users who have gone as far as steal the saris from the murthies in the temple. 



“The structure looked similar to the ‘Barnyard’ drug den,” said a devotee. 



“At night the road is very dark and we are worried that the drug users will attack us during services.”



He said the lights had stopped working around June last year when the municipality had cut down trees.



“Our power was disconnected when a branch fell on the line."



"Despite our attempts to get the municipality to repair it, nothing has been done.” 



The devotees have now changed their prayer times. 



“Our priest used to come to the temple from 8am until 9pm, now he comes in at 3pm and leaves at 6pm,” he said. 



“Because of the drug addicts, devotees no longer have the freedom to come in and offer prayer at whatever time they want."



"We have to constantly watch our backs.”



Another devotee, a 62-year-old grandmother, said she was afraid to go to the temple because of the drug addicts.



“A week ago, I was in the temple offering prayer and one of the drug addicts came in and stole my cellphone. 



“When he saw me, he dropped the phone and ran off.”



The woman said she was afraid because the elderly were always easy targets for criminals, especially drug users.



“There have been so many cases where drug addicts killed innocent people while intoxicated,” she said. 



“Having them so close by is life-threatening for us.”



A 37-year-old father-of-one said the drug users also stole the trishula, a symbolic trident in Hinduism. 



“They are disrespectful."



"They come into the temple yard wearing shoes with the pretence of wanting food, but in the meantime they are looking for things to steal.”



Another devotee said a major concern was their upcoming festivals in June and July. 



“Among our prayers is our annual fire-walking which attracts hundreds of devotees to our temple, but with these drug users prowling around we are now worried about safety.”



Apart from the temple, a local church and residents’ homes have been broken into.



Police spokesperson Lieutenant Colonel Thulani Zwane advised devotees to report the drug activity to the Phoenix police station so it could be investigated. 



By the time of publication, the municipality had not returned calls seeking comment.



POST