Durban - The Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (Gopio International) has opened its newest chapter, in Northdale, Pietermaritzburg. Yasmin Saanglae, a city dress designer and businesswoman in the cut, make and trim sector, led the “Pietermaritzburg Rocks!” celebration as the chapter’s new president at the event held at the PAFDA Hall in Newholmes on Thursday. More than 100 senior citizens joined a large international and provincial delegation of Gopio International leaders who attended the milestone event. After the chapter was officially unveiled as the country’s fourth fellowship, behind Gopio Durban, Gopio Johannesburg and Gopio Pretoria, several awards and certificates were handed out to local recipients involved in serving the community. Some of the South African members - who sit on the global body - who attended included Gopio International executive vice-president Ishwar Ramlutchman, Africa co-ordinator Rita Abraham and Marlan Padayachee (co-chairman: media council). The new president of Gopio Durban, attorney and businesswoman Rajesperee Naidoo, and some of her executive members were also honoured for their work. Awards were presented to local community members, ANC ward councillors Rachael Soobiah and Najma Ahmed (municipal), youth activist Ra’eesa Razak, Radhi Aheer and Kanthi Naidoo (education), and Dr Jane Premjeeth (healthcare). Members of the newly-elected local executive council are: Yasmin Saanglae, Soraya Jasat, Bhunny Bhoola, Loshnie Naidoo, Ra’eesa Razak and Advocate Moorgan. Gopio International spokesperson Marlan Padayachee said the colourful launch of the local chapter, especially in the presence of senior community members, augured well for the organisation to spread its wings to the northern towns of Newcastle, Ladysmith, Escourt and Dundee, all heritage sites with a strong history of the involvement of early Indian migrants in developing farming, agriculture, mining and business since the 1860s. He said a branch would be launched in Cape Town later this year. “We are extremely proud of the work that went into starting a chapter in the capital city,” said Padayachee. “Ahead of 160 years celebration of Indians in the country in 2020, it is vital to mobilise and galvanise the community to be unified to observe this milestone and also kick-start the dialogue of contributing to a better, safer, secure and economically stronger society.” POST