Durban - No matter how many grey strands or wrinkles one develops over the years, the yearning to reconnect with one’s long-lost childhood friend remains strong for many. And when 75-year-old uMhlanga pensioner Lallo Hariram finally tracked down his old chum after numerous internet searches, it was a eureka moment. 



The father-of-six last saw Mahendra Varma 52 years ago, but all of that changed recently when they embraced at a reunion at the Hilton hotel. 



Other friends also attended the get-together. 



Professor Varma, 75, and his family had travelled from Northern Ireland to catch up.



“It was an emotional meeting and we ended up chatting until 2am the following day."



"Time just ticked by,” said a delighted Hariram, who had also met Varma’s two daughters and wife Dr Elizabeth Dowey.



He said he had been enquiring about Varma’s whereabouts since 1973 and struck it lucky while searching online.



Hariram explained that while he knew his friend had fled to Great Britain during apartheid, he never knew where. 



He tried to obtain details from his family in South Africa, but was unsuccessful. 



“About six months ago, I did a Google search and about 30 people with the same name popped up."



"I contacted every one of them in the UK and only one person responded. 



“It was my friend.”



Hariram said the response was filled with questions from Varma.



“He asked me about my father and the background of my childhood. When I responded positively, he was elated."



"We continued intermittent conversations. Although we never spoke over the phone, it was incredible to be in contact with him after all these years.”



Hariram said the good news was shared with several of their buddies, who lived in Durban, and they eagerly awaited Varma’s visit.



Hariram, a former building manager, said they were all raised in Springfield and attended Springfield Hindu Primary, but Varma and his family, fed-up with discrimination and racial segregation during apartheid, emigrated to Britain.



“He had followed in his grandfather PB Singh’s (Natal Indian Congress) footsteps and was an anti-apartheid resister.”



Speaking about meeting his friends after five decades, Varma said: “The reunion brought back a lot of memories of how we all grew up and about our favourite hangout spot, the Alpine Cafe.” 



He also revisited his old primary school in Springfield. 



“It was wonderful. We met with the principal and some of the teachers, who showed us such great hospitality.”



Asked if he regretted leaving South Africa, his response was “no”. 



“I think when we first moved to Great Britain, I yearned to come back but when you live in a place for more than 30 years, it becomes your home. I do miss the climate though.” 



Varma said South Africa had grown since he had left. 



“I think South Africa has a bright future and people should give it a chance."



"With a new president at the helm, it looks promising.”



Varma said he received a wedding invitation from an extended family member, and that initially sparked the thought of coming to South Africa. 



“My family and I eventually decided to come for both the reunion and the wedding.”



Varma, who only has a few cousins left in South Africa, has returned to the UK and is not sure when he will be back. 



He graduated as a doctor at the Royal College of Surgeons in Dublin and undertook a PhD at Trinity College. 



He trained at the Royal Victoria and Belfast City hospitals and is currently employed in the National Health Service as a consultant physician/cardiologist. 



Varma is actively involved in the Northern Ireland Chest Heart and Stroke Association and also works with the European Society of Cardiology to combat heart diseases. 



He is a member of the Northern Ireland Research and Ethics Committee and was also honoured with the prestigious Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth. 



POST