Durban - For aeons, women have gathered in circles to share experiences, tackle challenges and empower one another. So too with the Minority Front, the only difference being that the political party, ravaged at the polls in recent years, has made its circle bigger. Way bigger. In fact, the MF Women’s Circle is so big it includes everyone who regards themselves as a woman, even if they weren’t born as one. “The support group consists of people from all walks of life and it will enable us to share knowledge about homosexuality, being transgender and the struggles we face,” said chairperson, 38-year-old transgender Farida Jalal. Jalal told POST that members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community have banded together to change society’s perceptions of them through the newly formed circle. Launched in Phoenix on Saturday, it has 120 members and will assist those dealing with daily challenges of violence, rape and discrimination. Their aims include enlightening women and the public about drag queens and the LGBT community in order to change misconceptions. “Coming from a predominantly Indian community we are often faced with prejudice where we are mocked, ostracised and ridiculed,” Jalal said. “If we can educate members in the women’s circle, they can spread the message.” The group would also focus on making a difference in Phoenix by continuing its charity work, including wheelchair and blanket drives, feeding schemes and assisting women dealing with everyday issues. “We are also hoping to make strides in having sex change surgeries free and available in government hospitals for those who cannot afford medical aid or a private hospital.” Fellow transgender Bhavna Kumarie, 34, added: “We want to be respected for who we are and not judged because of our sexuality." "We want to hold our heads up high and be understood. We are normal people too.” MF leader Shameen Thakur Rajbansi said the party was passionate about South Africa achieving all 17 sustainable development goals by 2030, which included gender equality. “There is power, energy and solidarity fostered by support, creativity and sharing of ideas." "We want this circle to be a vehicle that can be used to change the world,” she said. “Through the circle women can congregate, talk, laugh, share their stories, heal, offer care, grieve and spiritually connect.” POST