Durban - It’s that time of year again. You are sitting in front of your computer planning your next holiday. Where to go? It seems natural that the purpose of your break is relaxation, coupled with an experience of maybe a different culture. The big problem is that everything is so expensive. You finally settle on a place, and try to get everything to fall within your budget. Finally, the day has arrived for you to leave; suitcase in hand, camera ready over the neck, moon bag around the waist and off you go. STOP! Take a few steps back and check yourself in the mirror. You look like a tourist and a target to be taken advantage of. To have a truly desirable travelling experience it is necessary to embrace the destination you are travelling to, by being local. DRESS LOCAL Why do so many tourists feel the need to dress the part, as if they really want everyone to know that they are tourists? The secret to travelling like a local is first and foremost to stop dressing up like a tourist. You know the type very well; they are hard to miss, in their khaki shorts, hiking shoes and with camera around the neck. They might as well walk around with a big sign saying, “I will pay 10 times more than any other person, because I am a tourist.” The secret to travelling like a local is to remain inconspicuous, so the first thing you need to do is to complete a full mirror check. TRAVEL LOCAL The next point to travelling like a local is to use public transport. Research the areas you are visiting and mark off the places and things you want to do and use their public transport to get around. The fare for a local and a tourist would pretty much remain the same. SPEAK TO THE LOCALS Try to make a local friend, someone who can suggest places to shop, eat and visit. To experience the true culture of any given country, one only needs to hang out where the locals go. EAT LOCAL Most tourists are afraid of trying out the authentic local cuisine and end up eating things that are “safe”, or what they would find at home. This is pointless; firstly you will end up paying tourist prices and second, you are cheating yourself of the authentic experience. LEARN LOCAL LANGUAGE AND CUSTOMS Before leaving, try to learn about the local dress code and customs. Some countries are strict about what they allow, so don’t be caught in a situation where you find yourself being “spoken to”. Also, learn a few words and phrases that may help you get around easier. RENT LOCAL The new fad is to rent holiday rooms in people’s homes rather than stay in a hotel. If you don’t mind living with strangers, this is an excellent alternative; you automatically have a holiday family that will advise you about local places to visit and the chances are the homes are generally not in the middle of the tourist attractions, but close enough to get around. The secret to travelling like a tourist is to book your holiday during the off peak season. There are many benefits to this; the more obvious ones would be cheaper rates and fewer tourists. So, the secret to travelling like a local is, in essence, to blend in - but remember that it is still your well-deserved holiday, so let your hair down, fill your soul with the experience and enjoy every moment. * South Africa-born Valaskatzis a businesswoman, model, presenter, radio DJ, lifestyle blogger and woman empowerment activist, inspired by the world of beauty, fashion and travel. You can follow her lifestyle blog at www.vkatz.com POST