At the end of the 60-minute episode, when the couple were announced the winners by two points and thus the finalists before Sunday’s episode, Reddy, 33, professed his love for his 27-year-old sweetheart. “It has been an unbelievable journey,” he told her. “I have met my soulmate. You have changed my life in so many ways. You are honestly the strongest woman I know. I’m going to need a partner to win this competition, but also a strong partner in life, to start a family.” He went down on one knee and asked, “Will you marry me?”, to which an emotional Naidoo responded, “Yes! On TV hey, only you!” Reddy, a chief executive at Isithembiso Procurement and a Kloof resident, said while it was nerve-racking having to propose, he had to do it on national television after the cook-off of their lives. “The result could have gone either way, but the proposal was certain. I had planned this a long time ago, but both Kim and I lost our grandfathers to cancer. It was hard as I did not have the opportunity to say goodbye to my grandfather, who was in New Zealand at the time. “With Kim’s love and support the healing began. A year later, the timing was right and our growth throughout the competition made me realise I did find my soulmate. It was written in the stars and in the semi-final our stars aligned.” A blushing Naidoo said she was in shock: “We just came off a competitive cook and my mind was all over the place. When Pashi started speaking, I thought it was him just being his normal self and thanking me for the support but when he reached into his apron and got on one knee, I was ‘shook’. “All I could think about was the fact that the moment I have been dreaming of is finally here and it’s happening in front of everyone on national TV,” beamed the Yellowwood Park resident, who is completing a degree in educational psychology. The dynamic duo said their priority was to build a solid foundation. “We are taking each milestone, step by step. “Our focus is on the final this week then we will focus on opening our dream restaurant Kali, which will be a modern, progressive South African-Indian eatery with a trendy cocktail lounge called Karma.” POST