In the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Monday, Goolam Mahomed Rasheed Haffejee, 37, of Parlock, an employee at a hardware store was released on a R100 000 bail. He faces charges of murder, attempted murder, violation of the Explosives Act, arson, extortion and the illegal possession of firearms. His co-accused, businessmen Farhad Hoomer, 42, of Asherville and Ahmad Haffejee, 28, of Eshowe Hills - who is Goolam Haffejee’s cousin - were remanded in custody at Westville Prison. A source close to the investigation claimed Hoomer and Ahmad Haffejee were the alleged masterminds behind the Imam Hussein Mosque attack. Initially 19 suspects were charged for the alleged attack at the mosque. However, on Monday, charges against seven of the suspects were withdrawn. Remaining  The remaining nine suspects, who are also still in custody are: Thabit Said Mwenda, 28, of Reservoir Hills; Mohammed Akbar, 21, of Umbilo; Mohammed Seidth, 24, of Reservoir Hills; Amani Mayan, of Reservoir Hills; Abubakari Ali, 41, of Overport; Abasi Juma, 41, of the DRC; Muhammed Adil Sobrun, 19, of Durban; and Burundi nationals Omar Iddy, 38, and Ndikumana Shabani Umande, 42. They will make a formal bail application on Monday, along with Hoomer and Haffejee. In his application for bail Goolam Haffejee, who is the sole bread winner of his family, said he was not guilty of the charges against him. He said he was well-known and respected in his community and that on the day of the attack at the mosque he had been with relatives in Sheringham Road, Berea. The father of four minor children said if he was denied bail his children would suffer emotionally, financially and mentally. He said he also stood to lose his employment, which would impact his family financially. Magistrate Irfaan Khalil ordered, as part of Haffejee’s bail conditions, he was not allowed to leave KwaZulu-Natal without written consent from the investigating officer. He was also ordered to hand his passport over to the investigating officer and is not to apply for an emergency passport or any travel documents. Haffejee’s family said his arrest and incarceration felt “like a death in their family”. “His kids have not been to school since his arrest because they are being picked on. The allegations has left a stigma on the family,” said a spokesperson, who did not want to be named. POST