The metal containers they trade from are corroding due their close proximity to the ocean. The traders, who sell sweets, savouries and fried foods, said trading conditions at the weekends had become “unbearable”. In 2012, the city approved R90million for the Blue Lagoon precinct, which included providing kiosks for informal traders. Their woes began in 2015, soon after they moved into the kiosks. At the time, the city promised to provide them with facilities that met health and safety standards. The city’s acting head of communications, Mandla Nsele, said meetings were held with the traders in recent months. “The latest included a presentation on a proposed plan of the Blue Lagoon Pay Picnic Area Project to allow for the informal traders to be integrated along the edge of the development, which is on the Coconut Grove site. “It was explained to them that the project would commence in February 2019, once all processes had been concluded. “This was in order to avoid it being a construction site in the festive season when there is a great demand for space.” With regard to there being no running water, Nsele said water was being provided at the trading facility from nearby municipal facilities. He added that the health issues were being raised with the health and vector control department. But the traders tell a different story. They claim they have to carry drums of water from home or collect water from nearby public toilets and showers. At night the area is infested with rodents, they say. A 43-year-old trader, who did not want to be named, said she had been trading at the Blue Lagoon for 17 years. “We were told the city would build a proper structure for us to operate from. The containers were not meant to be permanent. It is three years later and we are still waiting. “Our working conditions are unbearable. We are cramped into a tiny space and the heat from the fryers makes it unbearably hot. “And it’s a major health hazard, with huge rats running around and getting through the gaps under the containers. The rats are also breeding at an alarming rate. We can’t give up our businesses here.Our bread and butter income is at stake.” Another trader claimed the tap from the communal wash area had been removed after they were informed by the city the water was being abused. Clogged drains were also a weekly problem. “We are working with food and need to maintain high levels of cleanliness. “They could have installed adequate drainage,” said the 62-year-old, who sells savouries. He said they had to transport drums of water and, if they ran out, they had no choice but to get water from the showers at the beach. A sweet seller, Razia Hoosen, 63, said: “Business has been bad since I moved here with some customers being put off by the stench of urine.” Being located so close to the sea has also resulted in the metal kiosks corroding. “I have had to replace the doors and repaint. “I should not be doing this. It’s supposed to be the municipality’s responsibility. We have been placed here and are just forgotten, it seems.” POST