Durban - While the African National Congress rejoices at the news that their member has taken back Ward 71, residents believe the newly elected councilor, Previn Vedan has alot of work ahead of him. The 26-year-old Human Rights Lawyer from Shallcross was announced victorious in the early hours of Thursday morning. He won the ward by a landslide against the Democratic Alliance by 469 votes. Crossmoor resident and community activist, Omi Nair congratulated Vedan. “I am impressed with this young man, who said that he is open to working with all parties to bring about change - something which has never been articulated before. "This camaraderie can only augur well for the diverse community of the Ward 71. Going forward this should be a workable solution to bring progress, change and hope to all its people. For far too long this Ward has been neglected with residents having to  take up the cudgels to address problems being faced with an incompetent and ineffective Councillor at the helm.” Resident Yugen Naidoo said he would like to see Vedan go back to basics and start with service delivery. “I have been living in Shallcross for a year and while it is a beautiful place, isn't much is being done. I know previously the councilors have tried and failed, they haven't done much, but with this young man, I am hoping he brings about change. "Our roads are terrible, we have issues with refuse removal, electricity, and water. Yes, crime and safety is an issue but the basics aren't even sorted out properly yet. So I would like to see him start from the ground and make his way up.” Shallcross CPF chairperson, Mahendra Lillkan described Vedan as someone who is committed to his community. “I have seen him grow up. Since he was young he has been assisting the community in whatever way. He is currently assisting the community to adopt the Shallcross Stadium. I am confident he will be great for the ward not only because he is young and has modern ideas but also because he is a lawyer which means he will also focus on the finer details.” POST