Jayshree Pillay said she “didn’t know how to feel” as only two accused were paying the price for the crime. “I’m happy that we have come to the end of this case but I’m not, if justice was not served in its entirety,” said Pillay. Ex-policeman Dhanaseelan Manickam, 47, and businessman Rajendran “Trevor” Chetty, 48, were found to have premeditated the murder of Narend Anandrai and acted in common purpose. Their co-accused - Veronica Rathilal, 48, Chatsworth attorney Jayshree Baijnath, 43, and businesswoman Shana Mangroo, 48 - were each acquitted last Wednesday. Charges against Claude Reginald and Sudesh Ghooruhoo were earlier withdrawn. The accused were implicated after self-confessed hitman Gregory Pillay pleaded guilty to shooting Anandrai, while he was seated in his Mercedes-Benz sports car in Havenside, Chatsworth, on March 18, 2014. The car burst into flames after hitting a wall. He was sentenced to 18 years imprisonment and turned State witness. However, Judge Peter Olsen said while he found Pillay to be an honest witness, he had to exercise caution as he was a single witness. Olsen labelled Anandrai’s murder a “contract killing” and referred to the Criminal Law Amendment Act, which rendered a sentence of life imprisonment “compulsory” unless there are substantial and compelling circumstances, which justified that of a lesser sentence. While Manickum and Chetty’s council both requested the court deviate from the minimum sentence on the basis that they contributed to society, were family men, had dependants and were first time offenders, Judge Olsen found those factors were not “unusual” and were always used when someone was convicted of a crime. “The crime was committed in the prime of their lives. They had all of the experience to turn their face away from criminal activity and the direction not to do so. They cannot now ask to be treated leniently.” Judge Olsen also found that the State had failed to prove the motive of the killing. “There has been debate that there was some measure of altruism.” He referred to a previous case of contract killing, where the judge referred to the crime as a “cold-blooded act” for which there could be no justification and was fast becoming a scourge in the country. Judge Olsen said Chetty and Manickum did not show remorse whereas Pillay was “clearly remorseful”. “Pillay was threatened with dire consequences. The accused took advantage of his status as a drug addict and he might have been easily persuaded.” Judge Olsen subsequently sentenced both men to life imprisonment. Advocate Deen Govender, Manickum’s legal representative, requested leave to appeal for sentence and conviction. POST