Durban - A suspected robber was killed and his two accomplices wounded in a shoot out in Inanda last night. The men are believed to be linked to a spate of house robberies in uMhlanga, Red hill and Durban North. Moments before their arrest, the men allegedly robbed a family in Danville Avenue, Durban North. It is believed that the men gained entry into the house via a window at the back of the house. They then allegedly bound the family members with cables and duct tape before forcing them into one bedroom. Marshall Security spokesperson, Kyle van Reenen, said the men ransacked the house, taking with them flat screen television sets, laptop computers, jewellery and other household items, which were loaded into the family’s Range Rover and drove off. “We managed to get more information as the vehicle was fitted with a satellite tracking device and our Special Operations Team was activated to assist. A location signal was found repeating in the Inanda area and our team descended on the location, intercepting the vehicle on a dirt road,” he said. Van Reenen said when the men saw that they were being followed, they speed off with the officers in hot pursuit. The man driving the Range Rover lost control of the vehicle which crashed into a shack. “The armed men then alighted from the vehicle and began shooting at our officers who returned fire, fatally wounding one of the men, two others sustained gunshot wounds and were arrested on scene. Their accomplice fled on foot and remains at large.  Our officers were not harmed,” he said. He said with the assistance of the police, a search of nearby premises revealed the property taken from the home in Danville Avenue. The men were found in possession of two firearms and live ammunition. It was later established that one of the firearms had been taken in a recent house robbery in Haig Road, Redhill. “The suspects have been linked to a spate of house robberies which have rocked the greater Durban North area of late, including an attempted house robbery in Adelaide Tambo (Kensington) Drive earlier on Wednesday night. This arrest comes as a result of a joint effort between Marshall Security and local police. The men were handed over to police for further investigations and processing,” he said. Van Reenen said three people, including a pregnant woman, were injured when the car crashed into their home and they were treated at the scene before being taken to hospital for further care. The Mercury