Durban - The Department of Health in KwaZulu-Natal has hit back at detractors adding that they are aware of a “deliberate and relentless campaign” to overlook the triumphs that they have made through their cancer treatment and oncology services. The department said that reports of a backlog of 8000 cancer patients in KZN were untrue. The department issued a statement about the progress made by their oncology services, just hours before Carte Blanche aired a feature talking about the state of affairs at local hospitals which treat cancer patients. Commenting on the airing, MEC health in KZN, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, said it only served to mislead the public about the status of oncology services in the province. “They aired outdated and inaccurate information using file material from the department’s appearance before the South African Human Rights Commission on the same subject matter,” Dhlomo said. He explained that the use of old footage was to portray the wrong impression. “As it stands, our records show that there are 205 patients who have been booked in at the radiotherapy clinic at Addington Hospital. This is from August 6 to December 3, 2018. At the Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital, there are 153 patients and at Grey’s Hospital, there are 198 patients who will undergo treatment,” he said. Dhlomo said interventions by the department have ensured that there are seven fully functional linear accelerators in the province - which is higher than any other province in the country. He said three of these are atIALCH, two at Addington Hospital, and one at Grey’s Hospital, where there are no significant waiting times for treatment. “The seventh machine is used as part of a Public-Private Partnership at Queen Nandi and Ngwelezana Hospital complex. Currently, there is no extended waiting time to see an oncologist at this complex.  We contracted three oncologists from the Wits Health Consortium, who are based at IALCH while Addington has two oncologists,” he said. Dhlomo said waiting times for patients to receive treatments has also drastically reduced, depending on the type of required service, while the total number of new patients that are booked is 1036. “Before these interventions, the waiting time was between five to six months. There are no waiting times for children who need to see an oncologist. significant improvements have been made in the restoration of oncology services, and that this will be further bolstered by the imminent recruitment of 12 radiologists who will be stationed at specialist cancer treatment complexes in the province,” he said. Dhlomo said irresponsible reporting on health issues, including the report on oncology brings unnecessary panic. “We, however, cannot control individuals who thrive on untruths and sensationalism," he said. Daily News