“The problems are exacerbated by taverns trading beyond regulated hours, disruption to neighbours and selling to the under-age people,” said spokesperson for the authority Dimba Vuyani. He said 8 000 liquor outlets were licensed in KwaZulu-Natal, but the majority were not complying with the conditions of their licences, including not selling liquor to minors, or near a school or religious institution. Questions were raised when a liquor store in Napierville, Pietermaritzburg, was granted a licence in August 2017 despite being next to a primary school and church. The store also applied for a pub licence in September this year, which infuriated residents. The DA has written to the MEC for Economic Development, Tourism and Environmental Affairs, Sihle Zikalala, demanding the store shut down. DA spokesperson on economic development in KZN, Ann McDonnell said she could not understand how the authority allowed the store to remain open. “The licence was granted for a liquor outlet, no more than 250m from a school and less than 50m from a place of worship in their community. We sent a parliamentary question on May 22, 2018, to the department asking for an explanation of how the Village Liquor Store was granted a licence to operate in breach of the KwaZulu Natal Liquor Act, by dint of the proximity of Piet Retief Primary School and a church.” She said a signed petition from the community and the school had been handed to the liquor authority in November, but Zikalala said no such petition had been received. He said the store was in a commercially zoned area and was well within the requirements of the act, adding residents could have appealed the decision, but the time to lodge the objection had elapsed. “They need to lodge a notice of intention to appeal, as provided for in section 61 of the 2010 KZN Liquor Act, to the executive council of the Liquor Authority 10 days after that person had been notified of the decision. It is now exactly a year after the licence was granted and the right to exercise the provisions has elapsed,” said Zikala in a response to McDonnell’s letter. DA councillor Ross Strachan said he was shocked at the lack of respect, disregard of the law and irresponsible behaviour of the department, which was meant to be a custodian of law and safety. “This community is held to ransom in their own neighbourhood due to alcoholism, drinking and driving and general urban decay. The most unacceptable of all, is that young children walking back from school witness this environment.” Strachan said they would continue to fight to shut down the store. Resident Andre Barnard, who had been instrumental in the petition sent in November, said he feared for the safety of children. “People are urinating on the streets and chasing each other with bush knives. We have no idea how they managed to get a licence. I nearly got knocked over when I was jogging. What happens to children who are walking on the road?” asked Barnard. The spokesperson for the Department of Education in KZN, Sihle Mlotshwa, commended the residents for their desire to protect children. “We live in a world that preys on the vulnerable and often on children, who succumb to peer pressure and are forced to consume alcohol illegally. We are glad the community is being proactive.” Provincial police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbele said illegal outlets were being monitored by the relevant stations. “These outlets are charged and liquor is seized. The provincial office gives guidance during operations and at the liquor compliance forums. Successes are monitored by the submission of the station’s monthly returns.” She said the police had tried to clamp down on under-age drinking by holding awareness campaigns with the designated community policing forums and youth desk structures. “Problematic schools, with regard to drugs and liquor, have also been identified and policed.” POST