Durban - There has been a substantial decrease in the depth of snow predicted to fall in parts of the country from Wednesday. Snow Report SA said data that they have collated indicates that a light blanket of snow will fall in part of SA, some places as far north as Mpumalanga. Taking to their Facebook page, Snow Report SA said while they were confident that they have correctly translated the data, there could still be changes to the weather over the next 24 hours. “From the early hours of Wednesday morning we expect to see light snowfalls scattered around the Eastern Cape as per our map, and as the morning progresses we are expecting to see snow starting to fall right the way along the Eastern Cape Drakensberg, the Southern Drakensberg and into the central high Drakensberg. During the afternoon on Wednesday, we expect these falls to intensify in central eastern parts of Lesotho, as well as extending further north into the Maluti Mountains around AfriSki and between Clarens and Harrismith,” Snow Report SA said. The predict further snowfall along the Drakensberg in the Eastern Cape and KZN as well as over the northern and central parts. “During this time, heavier falls are also expected in the central and eastern parts of Lesotho, and there is a chance that some lighter falls will happen in Matatielle area, and could also come down into the Underberg/Himeville area and the KZN Midlands areas.” There is light snow forecast around Harrismith and on the N3 between Joburg and Durban late on Wednesday night, but unless the quantity increases substantially we don’t expect the N3 to be closed during the night or on Thursday morning. “During the early hours of Thursday morning, we are surprised to see snow showing for Mpumalanga and the far eastern Free State in a band from Harrismith in the south to Graskop in the north, incorporating towns like Belfast, Ermelo, Wakkerstroom and Zamani, with flurries possible in neighbouring towns,” Snow Report SA. By late Thursday night all snowfalls should cease, with clear skies expected on Friday. “We expect to see some changes in this data over the next 24 hours, but will keep you informed with our next update later today,” they said. The Mercury