They have described the actions of Pastor Sam McWayne, of the Harmony Centre, a division of the United Pentecostal Church of South Africa, as reckless and a direct attack on Hinduism. McWayne caused an uproar on Facebook last Wednesday after he posted a picture believed to be of him holding the discarded red string and a Ganesha idol in his hand. He then wrote: “Tonight we had the greatest of pleasure to pray with a family that gave their heart to the lord. They packed boxes of ‘stuff’ they use to worship and asked us to dispose of it. We dedicated the home in Jesus’s name” Three days later McWayne, who is also a member of the National Interfaith Council of South Africa (Nicsa), apologised. “May I firstly start by apologising to all that have felt offended by my post. I am very sorry. The post had no insinuating thoughts, neither was I attacking any religious organisation, again, if I have offended you or your family or your belief, I apologise. "Only those who know me and my association across all denominations will really know what I stand for, which is never to attack any religious body.” However, his apology was not easily accepted, with many saying his actions were inexcusable. Numerous unsuccessful attempts were made to contact McWayne via social media and his cellphone. It is believed he is in Mauritius. Hours after POST messaged him for comment on Facebook messenger, McWayne deactivated his account and all calls went to voicemail. South African Hindu Maha Sabha (SAHMS) president Ashwin Trikamjee said McWayne’s apology was unacceptable. He described his actions as a “reckless” attack on Hinduism and Hindu practice. “I am shocked and disappointed at the actions of this pastor, especially since our Constitution is so liberal and every faith group is recognised and protected by the law, which has also given rise to interfaith groups throughout the country. “Every faith teaches religious tolerance and peace with fellow beings. This is a common teaching. However, his actions go beyond religious intolerance as it is a direct attack on another religion. “I am looking for the law to be tightened to prevent this kind of attack reoccurring as it appears to be freely done, with no repercussions,” he said. Minority Front leader Shameen Thakur-Rajbansi said McWayne’s actions were irresponsible. “There has to be more accountability taken especially by religious leaders, and those that belong to interfaith councils. “Anyone that sits on a registered interfaith council must understand that their role is to promote social cohesion and moral regeneration in a responsible manner.” She said such religious intolerance often sparked “fear”. “We should take into consideration our Constitution which highlights the rights of our country’s diverse communities. These types of posts will only create hate or fear of a religion,” she said. Having recently launched a national signature campaign in support of an international drive by the Global Hindu Foundation to ban conversion from Hinduism, the president of the South African Hindu Dharma Sabha, Ram Maharaj, described McWayne’s post as a disrespectful manner to “advertise his religion”. “It is blatantly clear that the pastor is ignorant of the glory of Hinduism. There are millions of people who have been trapped into conversion, but soon see the light and return to their roots. “His reprehensible conduct and insensitivity is a definite sign of religious intolerance. It is disrespectful that in order to elevate himself or his religion he is putting Hinduism down.” Emeritus Bishop Rubin Phillip said that while the various religious organisations had the right to propagate their point of view, they did not have the right to denigrate or belittle another religion. “I think the pastor is being insensitive to the Hindu faith and I would urge him to refrain from that kind of behaviour. “It is important for us religious leaders to display tolerance of our neighbours as there is no place for division. One of the challenges we face as a county and in KZN is building relationships across the various sectors.” Phillip, who co-chairs the KZN Social Cohesion Council, said the organisation was working on achieving better understanding and unity among the various sectors, including religious sectors of communities. The KZN central district superintendent for the United Pentecostal Church SA, Pastor Victor Chetty, said they had distanced themselves from the Facebook post. “We always respect other beliefs, practices and religion, and will continue to do so. Pastor McWayne has contacted the organisation and apologised. We ask that all those who were offended or hurt by the post to forgive him,” he said. POST