Durban - The Umhlanga Arch, a R1,3 billion European-inspired high street, prominently positioned on the slopes of Umhlanga’s Ridgeside, is expected to change the face of KZN to something never seen before. The mixed use development called the Umhlanga Arch is said to be the first-ever European high street that will bolster tourism, stimulate investment into the region, further elevate Umhlanga and greater Durban to a world-class standing, and facilitate significant job creation. Umhlanga Arch is almost 40% complete and has created over 600 jobs in the last few months, with the expectation to create around 400 more jobs in the near future, according to spokesperson for the project, Taryn Fleming. A partnership between Umhlanga Arch and Rembrothers was announced towards the end of 2017. "This collaboration intends to create a retail experience that brings the best of global trends and fuses them into one bespoke development offering. The vision behind KwaZulu-Natal’s first-ever European high street is to create convenience, explore creativity and celebrate uniqueness." Renzo Scribante, Founder of the Rembrothers Group said although the project is stemmed from an international concept, the Umhlanga Arch high street will fully support locally-based businesses. "Every element of the high street will not only be unique to the area but will also be on-trend and of a superior quality. We have been consulting with original home-grown brands and to start we have already confirmed Mark Gold, a leading bespoke South African jewellery brand, as one of the first operators,” shares." “We want residents, businesses and locals to feel transported to another place. This is definitely nothing like the typical malls and office blocks we have come to know and are used to. Our shop fronts will portray the personality of each operator, while the area will be an eclectic space for all to enjoy,” continues Scribante. The first transfers of Umhlanga Arch is said to take place towards the end of 2019. POST