Durban - Disaster management teams have been put on standby following an alert about severe thunderstorms expected for KwaZulu-Natal today. The South African Weather Services (SAWS) issued a warning for gale force winds and thunderstorms over the interior parts of the province. The alert indicates that lightning, flash flooding, very strong winds, hail and in some cases, tornadoes can be expected. KZN MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta) Nomusa Dube-Ncube has urged residents to take great caution as thunderstorms pose a serious threat to human life. “In our province, bad weather patterns tend to leave a trail of death and destruction in their wake every year. We are therefore urging our communities to take great caution. We call upon motorists to be cautious on our roads and for pedestrians to be extra vigilant and avoid crossing flooded walkways,” Dube-Ncube said.      Please be aware of the following severe weather alerts valid for today (30 October 2018). Be safe and take care. @ReenvalSA @SABCNewsOnline @ecr9495 @AlgoaFM @huisgenoot @WaterSheddingWC @storm_sa @StormReportSA1 pic.twitter.com/ctst7ymmkr  — SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) 
 October 30, 2018  She said disaster management teams are on standby and are keeping a close eye on the developments with regards to these thunderstorms. “Municipalities are also on standby to provide shelter to residents residing in low lying areas which are prone to flash flooding. We call upon parents and teachers to ensure that all pupils in their care take safe routes home,” Dube-Ncube added. What to do in caught in a thunderstorm If outdoors, seek shelter immediately, but DO NOT seek shelter under a tree, under telephone and/or power lines, on hilltops, in isolated sheds, under unprotected gazebos or picnic areas. Avoid being near metal objects such as - fences, golf carts, telephone or power lines and steel structures such as pylons and windmills. Do not - hold any metal object, use any electrical appliance, use the telephone, take a bath or shower. Do not play sport during thunderstorms. Golfers and fishermen are at high risk. If possible, stay indoors well clear of windows shelter pets and cover vehicles, disconnect electrical appliances. Listen to the radio or TV for warnings and obey the instructions from disaster management officers. Daily News