During the undercover operation, police obtained a detailed description of the target, the safe house where the kidnapped victim would be held as well as electronic tools to be used in the ransom negotiations. This information led to police foiling the kidnapping of a son of a wealthy Pietermaritzburg couple on Friday. A Pakistani businessman, 47, who is believed to be the mastermind behind the plot, was arrested. During the crime intelligence-driven operation, undercover police officers swooped on Asif Mohammed’s business premises in Church Street. It is believed that Mohammed, who owns a sweet shop, had known the businessman and his family. He appeared in the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court on Monday and faces charges of conspiracy to kidnap. State prosecutor René Padayachee said bail would be opposed due to the seriousness of the offence, the safety of State witnesses and to verify if Mohammed was legally in the country. “The accused had told the undercover agents a ransom of R5million was to be asked once they had the victim,” said Padayachee. Two police agents from the Multi-Dimensional Crime Intelligence unit obtained the last evidence regarding the planned kidnapping of the son of a local businessman. Mohammed will be held in custody at the New Prison until his bail application on October 15. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said several undercover operations were conducted where the suspect allegedly gave a detailed description of his first target, the safe house where the victim would be held as well as other electronic tools that would have been utilised during and after the alleged kidnapping. “The suspect allegedly provided detailed plans of how the kidnappings would be executed and how to use the instruments,” Mulaudzi said. Additional arrests and charges could follow, said Mulaudzi, adding that it had not been ascertained if this was part of a child kidnapping syndicate. A police source close to the investigation said Mohammed was the “main brain” behind the conspiracy to kidnap. “Mohammed gave the undercover agents a packet with about 20 international SIM cards which would have been used to execute the planned kidnapping. He wrote the name and details of the first victim and gave precise details on how the kidnapping would be carried out,” said the source. The clinical director of the Teddy Bear Foundation, Shaheda Omar, said child syndicates in South Africa were on the rise and many of those involved in luring children for monetary gain lived outside the country. “The syndicates, which are broader than South Africa, are most seriously growing and are now becoming more apparent. There’s a market for selling children.” Omar described the syndicates as “opportunistic predators”, especially in public spaces, including malls and parks. “They know there’s a strong possibility they are likely to have access to children as the parents are distracted.” She had recently dealt with two incidents where children were under threat - at a shopping centre and what was supposed to be a secure drop off point. “In the first incident, a mother was out with her 8-year-old child at a mall and a well-dressed person took a picture of the child and tried to hold on to her. The child froze.” Omar said the mother had walked off and not realised her daughter was not by her side. “When she saw her daughter with the stranger, she grabbed her and took her into a store where she called her husband for help.” In the second incident, a 10-year-old boy from a religious instructive school was called and offered sweets by a motorist in what was supposed to be a secure drop-off point. The child later told his parents. Omar advised parents to report incidents to police, mall management and security; it was vital for law enforcement to take cases seriously and to respond appropriately. POST