Durban - Verulam was the latest stop last week as the filming of the sequel to the blockbuster movie, Keeping Up With The Kandasamys got under way. Director Jayan Moodley said Kandasamys: The Wedding was being filmed across Durban. with fFilming startinged on September 25 and was expected to be completed at the end of the month. “We have been in and around Chatsworth and at various other locations in Durban. The movie is set for a bumper Easter release on April 19 next year.” The initial film, which hit the big screen last year, was considered a love letter to Chatsworth, as the community became a central character of the film. It told the story of the matriarchal rivals of neighbouring families, whose young adult children become romantically involved. The mothers, played by Jailoshini Naidoo and Maeshni Naicker, exhaust all efforts to keep the couple apart with hilarious results. The sequel, said Moodley, would pay tribute to the feminine aspect, the mother. “Fans can expect a roller coaster of emotions, with plenty of laughs and some tears too. The story picks up approximatelybout three years later as the young couple prepare for one of life’s greatest adventures, marriage. With a wedding comes loads of happiness and laughter and joy and family. But a wedding also brings tension and stress and disagreements galore.” The lead cast remains the same. “Everyone loves Shanti and Jennifer (Naicker and Naidoo, respectively), dotes on the young couple and, of course, Aya and Arsevan are a firm favourites.  “Fans can look forward to enjoying these characters in Kandasamys: The Wedding. There is a new addition to the cast as Yugan Naidoo takes on the role of Preggie.” The first film racked up a whopping R16 million in its first 12 weeks. “I don’t think anyone can accurately predict the success of a film, and we were truly overwhelmed with the support for our film. I think South Africa is looking for more family comedies and I think we touched the heart of the community. The film was multi-generational and people could relate to it. We just feel immensely grateful that the success made it possible for the sequel.” Given the magnificent great public response to the first film, Moodley said “the pressure is certainly on”. “But it’s a healthy pressure as it makes us want to do better, and to have an even better offering and to be apart of a very n exciting and growing industry in South Africa.”. POST