Brijnath is busy filming for a local TV series and he is preparing for the release of a film early next year. “The film hits cinemas at the end of January 2019, and we are all excited for its release. I play the part of the brother to Jailoshini Naidoo and Kajal Bagwandeen, and Lillette Dubey plays our mom. "For years, I have admired the work of these three fabulous ladies, and to get the chance to act alongside them is amazing. “My uncle Chummy Ishwar Brijnath, who is my biggest supporter apart from my parents Shaam and Pramodh, saw me performing on stage one day and encouraged me to rather further my studies in drama and media at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. He even paid for my studies, and I owe everything I have become to him.” The 33-year-old, who now lives in Reservoir Hills, will soon be appearing on hit local series, Uzalo, which airs on SABC 1. He plays the part of "Riki" in the highly anticipated movie, Three days to go. Brijnath said his passion for being centre stage came to him at a very young age. “Growing up in Newcastle, everyone was passionate about kids - supporting them and building their confidence. "My parents were devotees of the Rama Krishna Centre, and the centre would host these cultural competitions and get the kids involved. I remember my big break,” he laughs. “I was six, and my role was a beggar boy. I played the role so well I won an award for the temple,” he said. “Back then people took pride. It was a competition for the temple not for an individual. There was so much camaraderie and parents would get together, and hand-make the costumes. Parents and their kids really bonded that way,” he said. Brijnath beamed as he spoke about his sons, Bheem Hriday, 7, and Nakul Udhav, 4. “My love for my boys is unmeasurable. They always see me on TV and say 'Hey dad, it's you'. I will never forget the day I felt accomplished as an actor. I was at my son's school, and he stood proud and said to his friends, 'My dad is an actor'. "I think the universe spun 360 degrees and back. His words touched me and gave me conviction and confidence.” POST