Bollywood: 20 Years of Rahul, Anjali and Tina: The maverick filmmaker Karan Johar celebrated 20 magical years in Bollywood last week with a lavish party to commemorate his debut release with the cult classic Kuch Kuch Hota Hai. While Johar has gone on to lead the highly acclaimed Dharma Productions, he is also being credited for bringing back the era of multi-starrers. First on his production list is Kalank, a movie that brings together some of the biggest names from the industry. The highly anticipated period drama features young superstars and Johar favourites, Varun Dhawan and Alia Bhatt, together with the super-sizzling Aditya Roy Kapoor and the talented Sonakshi Sinha. The major casting coup for Kalank belongs to legendary superstars Sanjay Dutt and Madhuri Dixit, who were once allegedly romantically involved. Dixit stepped into the role after the tragic death of another iconic actress - Sridevi. Abhishek Varman of 2 States fame takes up the director's seat. The movie is scheduled for release in April next year. Another anticipated multi-starrer blockbuster from Dharma Productions is Takht that has Johar at the director's helm. Again, he has managed to secure a stellar cast, including the most sought after names from the industry - Ranveer Singh, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Alia Bhatt, Anil Kapoor, Vicky Kaushal, Bhumi Pednekar and Janhvi Kapoor. Set during the Mughal times, the grand epic is the tale of two feuding brothers. Takht is expected to be released in May 2020. Johar last directed the romantic drama Ae Dil Hai Mushkil.  Pencil in the name Tara Sutari: Here’s a name to look out for - Tara Sutari, who is all set to make her debut alongside Ananya Panday in Student of the Year 2, featuring Tiger Shroff in the lead role. Now the rising actress has bagged the lead female role in a movie that brings together Sidharth Malhotra and Ritesh Deshmukh and will be made by Satyamev Jayate director Milap Zaveri. Malhotra and Deshmukh previously achieved critical and commercial success for the thriller Ek Villain. Sutari recently turned down a lead role opposite Shahid Kapoor.  Will Smith shakes a leg in Bollywood: Student of the Year 2 continues to make big news in Bollywood. Beside the exciting cast, the project just got bigger as Hollywood legend Will Smith recently shot for a cameo song appearance with the lead cast. Smith, who admits to being a fan of Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, was in New Delhi for a leadership summit. He said he always wanted to dance in a Bollywood movie. Meanwhile the lead star of Student of the Year 2 Tiger Shroff is busy working on his next mega project. The action thriller is produced by Yash Raj Pictures and has Shroff teaming up with his idol Hrithik Roshan.  Superstars set to wed: Last week we shared news about Priyanka Chopra’s wedding plans with Nick Jonas scheduled for late November. Now we can report that another scorching Bollywood couple will get married on November 14 and 15. After winning our hearts in movies like Bajirao Mastani, Ram Leela and Padmavat, the powerhouse couple of Ranveer Singh and Deepika Padukone are set to tie the knot. The couple shared the good news on social media a few days ago, with insiders claiming a destination wedding in Italy was on the cards. Singh will next be seen in the masala entertainer Simmba, while Padukone has just signed a new project to play the role of acid-attack survivor Laxmi Agarwal. POST