Durban - Hours after the SPCA refuted claims that a cat was raped in Verulam, their chief vet found out that the cat, in fact, had a rare skin cancer and had to be euthanised. Tanya Fleischer, the marketing manager of Durban and Coast SPCA, said the white female cat was brought into the SPCA Hospital on Monday, two days after news of the alleged rape. "Our chief veterinarian carried out a thorough examination and could find absolutely no evidence to support the owner’s allegations that she had been raped. No signs of recent trauma could be found." However, the SPCA found the cat to be a "poor condition" and looked like she was much-needed veterinary treatment and had to be subsequently put down. "She had severe crusting on both ears from sun-induced invasive skin cancer which is incurable.  She was underweight and tick infested. Sadly, the girl had to be humanely euthanased in order to prevent prolonged suffering." On Friday, security company, Reaction Unit SA posted information on Facebook claiming that an elderly Verulam man was caught having sex with his neighbour's pet cat. The man was arrested and taken to Verulam SAPS. It was also stated that the SPCA was called to the scene but Fleischer said this was not true. She revealed that the owner's contact details was only obtained from SAPS on Monday. "No investigation took place at the scene for evidence; the cat was not removed for examination nor was the SPCA called to the scene," said Fleischer. She said a case was not opened due to the unreliability of the owner's version. "Our inspector immediately contacted the owner yesterday to arrange collection of the cat for examination by our chief veterinarian.  The cat was roaming and our inspector had to leave a cat trap.  A short while later he revisited the site and the cat had been confined for collection." She said the owner handed the cat over to them as she no longer wanted her. She added that it was unfortunate that RUSA sensationally publicised a case without first investigating the veracity of the allegations. "This has understandably caused distress and outrage amongst community members and animal lovers." POST