Childline KZN receives an average of 15000 calls a month on its 24/7 crisis line, with physical and sexual abuse, as well as child neglect, continuing to be the highest category of calls. In a recent incident, a man posted a picture of a child in a provocative pose and indicated his desire to have sex with the child. This raised the ire of the MEC for Social Development in KZN, Weziwe Thusi, who called for responsible social media use. “The picture of the child is disturbing and makes you wonder what kind of a person would take such a picture. The actions of the man make one wonder what he would do if he were to meet the child and what he is doing to other children around him,” she said. A teenage boy was recently charged with the alleged rape of a five-year-old girl at the Umgeni Bird Park in Durban; and a six-year-old girl was also allegedly raped at a men’s toilet, at the Dros restaurant and bar in Silverton, Johannesburg. The Hawks and Crime Intelligence also uncovered a plot to kidnap the children of high-profile KZN businessmen and demand millions of rand in ransom, in exchange for their safe return. Acting director of Childline KZN, Adeshini Naicker said often the threat was close to home. Naicker said society had changed and the days of children having sleepovers, at their friends and neighbours homes, were becoming less common. “Sleepovers should only be condoned if you know the parents really well, and you and your child are comfortable with them,” said Naicker. “Always find out who else is in the house. Listen to your child and never force them to stay. In light of all the recent cases of abuse against children, more and more parents are exercising a veto against sleepovers. “Society has changed and this forces parents to now change the rules to ensure safety of their children.” Naicker said Childline KZN had recently embarked on an Eye on your Kid campaign that focused on parents taking extra caution with children. “Tips include, ‘trust your gut, keep your eyes open, stay vigilant and trust your instincts about people’, even the ones you know. Most children are victimised by people they know. “Predators can attack anywhere and the more familiar they are with the child, the easier it is. “Know all the contact details of your child’s friends, monitor social media and online contacts, talk to children and play out scenarios.” Naicker added that human trafficking had been reported to be the fastest growing criminal activity in the world and that, in South Africa, “we have definitely noticed an increase in incidents”. “It is common knowledge that traffickers often use social media to prey on their victims. “They use social media to take advantage of the vulnerability of children to turn them into victims. They misrepresent themselves with false profiles. Individuals, who post evidence of their wealth, must be wary that they are providing a platform to be scrutinised by predators.” She advised that parents keep their children safe by constantly talking to them about current issues. The founder of Operation Bobbi Bear, Jackie Brandfield said parents could not trust anyone with their children. She said they dealt with almost 3000 new and returning cases of sexual assault each month. Nyika Machenjedze, of Save the Children South Africa, added that as the festive season approached, children would become more vulnerable to predators. Jameel Essop, of Stop Human Trafficking Now, said if your child is missing, you don’t have to wait 24 hours to open a police report. POST